[TOC]



# September 2019

LME CLASS schedule https://app.box.com/file/517099446939

## 09/02/2019 Monday

### DDM 596 The Foundation of Katra PART 1

#### LTA

In this assignment,George uses a phrase that “describes him”. Using George’s phrase, what “says” YOU?

- Nothing says George like a movie

#### EVC

- I’m good
- long 
- you in
- all on ~’s dime
- tons

#### VOC

- Magnificent: wonderful, very nice
- Stone: headstone, gravestone, grave marker, (old English) tomb stone
- Put it up: in this case,installed it, set it at the cemetery
- I’m good: I don’t NEED to ~/anymore ~, I’ve had enough
- Swept: won every game
- The bowels: in this case;the underside, the back side
- Paid my respects: said goodbye to the dead
- Mourned: paid my respects
- Long: emphasizing tiring/difficult
- Grieve: mourn
- You in: (are) you game, you up for it, you want to
- All on ~’s peso: typically; all on ~’s dime: 100% paid for by ~
- Tons: lots
- This dump: this boring place
- Spill it: tell me, out with it
- Blurted out: said without thought
- Unprecedented: something that has never happened before
- Upset: in this case; not happy
- Jerks away: jerk something away (from someone, something, or an animal) to snatch something away or quickly pull something back from someone or an animal.
- Swig: to swallow hurriedly or greedily or in one draught
- snakebite: A snakebite is an alcoholic drink from the UK. Traditionally, in the United Kingdom it is made with equal parts of lager and cider. If a dash of blackcurrant cordial is added, it is known as a "snakebite & black", a "diesel", or a "purple nasty". Different regional recipes and names exist.
- I told them her death takes place in the shadow of new life. She’s not really dead if we find a way to remember her
- Wrath: extreme anger: the wrath of God
- Flask: A flask is a bottle which you use for carrying drinks around with you. 
- Martial arts class: Martial is used to describe things relating to soldiers or war
- karate  [kə'rɑːtɪ]
  n.  a traditional Japanese system of unarmed combat; sharp blows and kicks are given to pressure-sensitive points on the body of the opponent
  - Karate, Jerry. Karate. It’s a lifetime pursuit of balance and harmony.
- Anything you could not have gotten tearing open a bag of Doritos or watching Viva Zapata? 
- 

### LME 155

**TO LEARN: Labor Day in the USA!**

Hi ,

Today’s LABOR DAY in the USA!! It’s celebrated on the first Monday of September every year.


This is the “last” holiday of the “summer” season! And after today, almost ALL kids will be back in school and moms across America are HAPPY!

This is a great weekend for family **get-togethers**, barbecues, swimming, fishing, camping…for having FUN!

But this year, where I live, we have COLD weather and rain!! Actually, I love that weather, but I’m sure there are many people around me who are NOT happy!

And speaking of the weather, there’s a terrible hurricane right now in the Atlantic Ocean. It’s **wreaking havoc on** the Bahamas and will be making its way towards the USA soon. So people are NOT having a very nice Labor Day weekend there, either.

- IF one thing **plays havoc with** another or **wreaks havoc on** it, it prevents it from  continuing or functioning as normal, or damages it. 
  - Drug addiction soon 
  - played havoc with his career. 
  - The weather played havoc with airline  schedules. 
  - Stress can wreak havoc on the immune system. 
    

Back in May we talked about May Day and it’s similar to Labor Day in the US, but May Day is NOT a big thing here!

Labor Day is also the time that many fall sports begin. Namely, FOOTBALL! American football! College football **kicks off** and there’s a lot of car racing, too. The US Open Tennis Championships, too!

This long weekend (Saturday, Sunday and Monday) has something for everyone! And for many, all they want is a little extra sleep!

When’s your next holiday? What are your plans? Did you celebrate Labor Day? Share some pictures!



## 09/03/2019 Tuesday

### LME Magazine

You didn’t come this far just to come this far.

We made it through 67% of 2019. We're in the final third of the year. More than half way, but still a lot of time.

Is there something you need to do? Something you need to finish? Something you need to start?

Do you need help with getting started? Can you help someone get started? Can you help someone finish?

It's a great time of year to look around yourself... And be grateful for what you have AND for who you have.

Is there something you can do for someone to help them accomplish their goals? Maybe it's just to help them finish their day nicely. Or to help them start their day nicely. I'm sure you can find someone who might like your helping hand.

Let's do that.

- Jane:  Hi Coach Shane,

For the last two weeks we were on vacation in Canada and the US. There are so many pictures that I don't know how to choose  (..•˘_˘•..)

Here are a few from Canada that I thought were interesting.


We went to Casa Loma (a big old castle, Spanish for "Hill House"), which is a Gothic Revival style mansion and garden in midtown Toronto, Canada. And now it is a **historic house museum and landmark**. It was constructed from 1911 to 1914 as a residence for financier Sir Henry Pellatt.

Due to its unique architectural character in Toronto, Casa Loma has been a popular filming location for a lot of famous movies and television, such as X-Men, Chicago, Strange Brew, etc.  It was also temporarily transformed into Hogwarts for the release of Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows as well as The Beast's Castle for Disney's 2017 live action Beauty and The Beast.

(I’m a **diehard** fan of X-Men and Harry Potter＾∀＾)

At last, a jellyfish from the aquarium in Toronto^_^

I haven't studied or attended the Live Class for two weeks and I felt so guilty. I have to study harder from now on! Thank you!

Hi Jane! 

Fantastic pictures! Can you believe that the house was someone's personal house?! Amazing! What did the guy need all of that space for? And it looks perfect for Hogwarts!!

If I ever go to Toronto, I'll be sure to check that out! And the aquarium, too. Jellyfish are great to look at, but DON'T **get stung** by one!!

Welcome back and STUDY HARD! See you in class, Jane!

 

Coach Gulya

 **"**  Part TWO of our summer vacation! Below is the Tretyakov gallery (new building- expose the art of XX-XXI centuries). 

My ballerina (Tretyakov gallery)

Waiting for the fireworks...We had fun in the Burger's and Firework's Festivals.

And of course, the zoo (I am sending you some bears- I know you love them), a petting zoo, an oceanarium, a rope park, and a **trampoline** center! The kids love all of these things!

Below...a very tough guy!

Hello Coach Gulya! 

I want to see the TRAMPOLINE CENTER!

The pictures of your summer are really great! The little ballerina is such a cute picture!!

And your family pictures are the best! A big, happy family--**what great fortune you all have**! 

And BEARS! Yes, I do love bears. After all, our business is named after one of our bears!!

I hope your fall is just as enjoyable and we look forward to more from your family! 

See you in class, Coach Gulya!

- Yulong

 Hi! Coach Shane,

I took a vacation with my family in Serbia this past August. Serbia is a country in Eastern Europe.

We visited two cities: Belgrade, the capital and Novi Sad, the second largest city in the north of Serbia.

It was a wonderful trip so let me share some pictures with you! The beautiful attractions, the beer and the delicious food.  ^_^

You've got to visit the Kalemegdan fortress by the Sava River and the millennium tower on Gardos hill in Belgrade. 

- A  fortress is a castle or other large strong building, or a well-protected place, 
  which is intended to be difficult for enemies to enter. 

From the top of the Gardos tower, you can overlook the beautiful Danube river!

St. Mark's Church (behind my wife and daughter) is also a spot you should not miss. It's one of the cultural properties in Belgrade.

You should plan a day or two of just walking around in downtown of Belgrade. There are lots of interesting things you can find!

Graffiti on the buildings, old style trams...I especially liked the fountains along the streets because it was so hot on the days we were there, about 40 °C！

Then we headed north to Novi Sad. We bought the wrong tickets which put us on a bus that stopped at every town so it took us an extra hour! But we were able to see miles and miles of corn fields and small towns on the way and we really enjoyed them.

I found we were the only foreigners on the bus! A local old woman next to us was so nice. She showed us apple trees and other stuff worth seeing on the roadside and she even gave us some candy!

The name of Mary Church  (73 meters tall, below left),  Petrovaradin Fortress by the Danube River (top right), Freedom Square (bottom right)...  lots of great places to explore in Novi Sad!

Behind me, a strange clock on the bell tower of Petrovaradin Fortress, called locally as the *drunk clock*, because its minute hand is shorter than its hour hand! Can you tell me the correct time in the picture? 

A child's smile is always the most beautiful in the world!

There is nothing better than a glass of cold beer--something I could sure use on such hot days as we had there! In Serbia, even on the flight, I enjoyed all kinds of beer!

We have tried delicious food in different local restaurants, but only the Pizza on an unknown street in Belgrade left me with a wonderful, endless **aftertaste!**

In Serbia, the seniors only know a little bit of English or less, so the only way I could talk with them was by using body language.

But you can converse pretty easily with the younger people in English, especially the staff in the museums, the hotel clerks and taxi drivers. Some of them speak excellent English.


When I spoke English, I applied what I have learned in PIRF lessons, tried to make my sound correct and clear, make the suitable intonation and rhythm, and I found they could understand me quite well!  

Travel is to experience what you haven't experienced before and to find something interesting!

English study is the same, but beyond language learning I got a few added bonuses: laughter, critical thinking, **emotional resonance**... Thank you, Coach Shane!


Best wishes and Have a nice day!

Hi Yulong, 

I am SO proud of you! You are utilizing your English, enhancing your family life and experiencing the world in such a beautiful way! This is the MAIN reason I love teaching English. To bring people together from different backgrounds via the "bond" of language! After the language, the culture, the food, the beauty of the world!

We all become **ambassadors!** The pictures are fantastic and you have added another place for me to visit! Especially for the beer! And that pizza...See you in class, Yulong!

- Finally, from Coach Shane...

World **Ploughing** Contest! It was located WAY up north--right next to Canada! I'm not a farmer, but I LOVE the farming culture and I thought an event like this might be kind of fun. It was!

Lots of **tractors** and **plows** from MANY different countries. **Hayride**s, horses, farmers and food!

Ireland won. The US came in in the second. And everyone had a great time. 

Farmers are the **backbone** of every country. If Mikey wanted to become a farmer, I would support him 100%! Are you a farmer? Anyone in your family? I'd love for you to send us some pictures! It's harvest time for many countries around the world. Show off your country's farms and harvest!

That's a **blacksmith** forging some metal into art. Victoria talked about that and now I **was able to see a little firsthand!**

Children waiting for cotton candy. THANKFULLY Mikey doesn't know about cotton candy. Yet.

Great family time. A backstage shot of a bluegrass band playing some nice music. The main food tent! I had myself a brat--delicious. WAY overpriced, but what can you do? And an antique John Deere tractor.

It doesn't look like Mikey is very impressed.  

I spoke with several of the competitors--everyone spoke great English and I was a bit sad. I was hoping to promote my classes!!!

BUT you should be joining my classes! We just started a brand new month and we'd love to have you!



------

### English-speak-English

Before departing for my summer holiday, I was able to get most of the yard and garden chores finished, not least of which was the fence. Finally! All beds have been covered with a thick planting of **clover** or **buckwheat** to help retain moisture, as I won’t be around to water anything. The buckwheat is a good crop for attracting bees and butterflies. The clover has worked well as a **hearty** barrier crop between the edges of my garden and perennial crops like asparagus. It slows down the **encroachment** of wild weeds into the garden space from the surrounding pasture.

- Hearty people or actions are loud, cheerful, and energetic. 
  Wade was a  hearty, bluff, athletic sort of guy.  He gave a hearty laugh
- encroachment: to enter by gradual steps or by stealth into the possessions or rights of 
  another 

It’s hard for me to be away from the garden in summer, especially, 2 summers in a row, but it’s only temporary. Even though I was not an active gardener during these two summer seasons, I have maintained good practices, by adding bio-mass and other organic matter to the plot. My compost bins sit at the ready for me to distribute in September when I return. I know that I will have a bit of work to do in autumn to catch up and turn-in the cover crops as **green-manure.** All of this **ensures** that next summer’s garden soils will be ready to go in spring. And next summer I will be here all season and **attending** to my little plot of ground.

I am always eager to accept volunteers to come and work in my garden at anytime during the season from May through October. Let me know.

For the months of July and August this year I am offline. There will be no postings and no updating of comments during that time.

**Rest assured,** dear readers, that upon my return in September, I will have a full accounting of my travels and details of summer adventures.

**I hope each of you savor the season of sunshine and abundance. Stay cool as best you can and take time appreciate life.**

I will see you in September.



## 09/04/2019 Wednesday

### English-speak-english

#### Osaka, Japan

Welcome back, Dear Reader!

It’s been a long, hot summer and it’s sure is great to be back home. As part of my summer R&R program I took a trip to China, and while there Echo and I had an opportunity to take a short side-trip to Japan. There are direct flights daily from Jinan to [Osaka, Japan](https://insideosaka.com/first-time-in-osaka/). Flight time takes approximately 2.5 hours. Which makes it easy to use as a quick weekend get away. **As promised here is the beginning report on some of this summer’s fun.**

When we arrived in Japan the weather was very hot, but less humid than I expected. The lower humidity was mostly due to the **typhoon that was hammering the south of China.** This caused a pressure system that resulted in dry, windy and hot weather in Japan. **In spite of my aversion to hot and humid weather** and knowing that August weather in Japan was notably awful when we made the reservation, I was prepared to **deal with it as best I could,** According to many travel guidebooks this time of year is actually not recommended for visiting Osaka. The fact that many Japanese take their yearly holiday in August and the **oppressive** humidity combined with very high temperatures is simply not **conducive** to travel. It is fair to say that **in most temperate climates the weather in August is usually uncomfortable for many people.** So, all in all we were lucky with clear weather, though hot, but not oppressively humid. A second typhoon was **stacked up** in the Pacific and apparently **made landfall** in Japan, just a few days after we returned to Jinan.

Fresh daikon at the market. The Japanese use many different types of radish in salads, pickling, and, of course, to make Wasabi = the green colored condiment on sushi plates is made from powdered radish (diakon).

The beautiful sakura, or cherry blossom is a highlight of Japanese culture, but the Sakura Festival time is in early spring (April) when the cherry trees bloom. Perhaps in another visit we will return at that time of year. Additionally, autumn is another time of year that enjoys mild temperatures and pleasant weather (October / November). The benefit of visiting Osaka in Autumn is that there are fewer crowds than during the Cherry Blossom Festival. If you are thinking about a[ trip to Osaka here is a good link](https://www.willflyforfood.net/2019/02/05/the-first-timers-travel-guide-to-osaka-japan-2019/) with plenty of info for first-time travelers to Japan.

Along the rail trip from the airport to city center, it was interesting to note the **efficient use of any available scrap of land.** In between many small groups of houses and apartments, in areas that could be easily **overrun with weeds and clutter, the land was put to use growing small amounts of food crops.** I observed corn, wheat, rice, beans, tomatoes, and other fresh vegetables. I think this **speaks highly of the innate industriousness of the Japanese people and the value they place on real-estate.**

Seafoods are this island nation’s **food staple**.

It is also immediately noticeable that the country is **exceptionally** clean. The streets, transit stations, public toilets, and even the garbage collection trucks are clean! **Processing for customs and entry was quick, orderly and efficient.** We were on our way in minutes….to the trains which also were remarkably clean, as were the platforms. The subway system is a bit confusing at first but eventually you get where you need to be. Most police and subway ticket workers can speak some English.

In a nation that **takes such obvious pride in order and cleanliness**, I was a bit surprised to see occasional **graffiti** on some walls and buildings. The graffiti is only in black and usually just some characters, it’s rather subtle, even **sedate** by U.S. or Euro standards, where graffiti artists have become celebrities famous for their murals that can span the outside walls of supermarkets and shopping centers.

Osaka Castle

[Osaka Castle ](https://www.osakacastle.net/english/access/index.html)is a top destination for tourists and well worth the visit….it offers **panoramic views** of the Osaka metro-area. Seven stories high, surrounded by a moat and the stone work of the outer walls is impressive. To save time we took a taxi to get there. The taxi was **spotless**. The park, a heavily trafficked tourist destination and the castle were also very clean. Traffic is orderly, though the Japanese share that **peculiar habit with the British** — driving on the wrong side (left side) of the road!

The city of Osaka is known as the “[kitchen of Japan](https://www.byfood.com/blog/what-to-eat-in-osaka)“. A wide range of **eateries** can be found, from **high-end** steak houses, like the one we tried on the first night – food was very good, **artfully presented and cooked to perfection, but ridiculously priced in terms of portion size and customer value**…. to more moderately priced local staples and quick street food at some of the open markets. We enjoyed fresh seafood. I broke my Sushi rule — haven’t had sushi in 20 years or more. I also broke my [Fukushima](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fukushima_Daiichi_nuclear_disaster) rule — fear of **radioactive seafood, particularly fish sourced from the N.W. Pacific Ocean**. So far, I haven’t noticed myself glowing, neither is my hair falling out….so far.

Among my favorite foods we shared; the sashimi on the first night. The quality of the fish was exceptional. A little wasabi and soy sauce and the fish would almost melt in your mouth! The sushi chef did not speak any foreign language, but he went to great lengths to communicate using the menu pictures and a handy little APP on his smart-phone! The tool could translate spoken English to Japanese or Japanese to Mandarin. Later, when the boss came back, we had a pleasant conversation with him. He was fluent in English and informed us of his company’s other locations in Seattle and L.A.

Also the place we went for lunch, a cool 24-hour place full of locals. I had crab-fried rice and the fried chicken with a small bottle of Coke and Echo had salmon and a freshly grilled sea-scallop. This was another interesting example of how the Japanese will **make every effort to communicate with foreigners.** Plenty of pointing at menu pictures and item descriptions, speaking in broken English mixed with Japanese and even some Mandarin. Also helpful was the digital menu, pictures and options to choose the menu in English, Mandarin, Korean or Japanese.

Finally, of the three beef restaurants we tried, the place on the night before we left, another favorite hang-out for locals that Echo found and it was exceptional! Salad was colorful and the dressing was **piquant**, the fresh tomatoes were excellent and **made me long for home.** The beef was superb and well known among locals, called [Matsusaka beef](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Matsusaka_beef). A fine treat. I am pleased to say that I tried it and it is very good quality, though quite fatty.

To be clear about fat in beef and my comment above. I should say overly fatty to my taste. There is no argument that fat helps to add flavor and keep meat moist as it cooks. A certain amount of fat in the diet is good, but excess fat is not healthy. In Japan eating beef is not common and most people only eat beef on special occasions. So, eating small amounts of beef with high fat content on occasion is okay. The beef pictured above is what I would call **heavily marbled (very fatty)**. [Marbling in beef](https://steakschool.com/learn/beef-marbling-everything-you-need-to-know/) is an indication of high quality. It is also interesting to point out that **Asian culinary culture places high value on meat fat**. **Rotund people are thought to be fortunate, happy and even wealthy! In the west**, in the U.S. in particular, many people eat more beef annually than in other countries and the tendency is to trim fat and eat very lean beef. Also, there are **generational differences in dietary tendencies**. People of older generations eat / ate more fat. Younger folks with their greater degree of health-consciousness tend to eat less red meat and when they do eat beef they look for lean meat.

When I am in Japan I will gladly eat their very special beef, it is delicious! **But alas, I am fond of American beef and I am not overly worried about fat / cholesterol.** One of the many great things we have in America is plenty of land to raise cattle to feed our national appetite for red meat and our beef **costs a fraction of that beef raised on Honshu Island.**

The city of Osaka is a good starting point for first time travelers to Japan. Our hotel choice was centrally located in an area that was recommended for ease of access to everything. Here is a free advert for the [Best Western Hotel in Shinsaibashi district of Osaka, Japan](https://osaka.bwhotels.jp/). The rooms and beds were the smallest I’ve ever seen. It is Japan. Get used to it. Everything is smaller. The place was clean and within easy walking distance to shops and restaurants. We tried the hotel breakfast on the first day and decided we could do better elsewhere. That is usually my experience – hotel breakfasts are frequently not worth the money.

With more time on a future visit we could **venture out of Osaka proper** and take a train to Kobe and other smaller cities in the area. Although Tokyo is not a must see for me, I would like to see more of the northern island and the countryside. Visiting a rural **on-sen** (outdoor natural mineral hot spring) is also something I would enjoy.

On our way back to Jinan, we ate lunch at the airport. I will say without a doubt that it was the best food I’ve ever had in an airport! Very good hot & sour soup, delicious gyoza, fresh tomatoes with a leek dressing, fried rice and all reasonably priced….yeah we should go back and eat some more!

**Some tips for making your visit to Osaka more pleasant;**

In Japan, **quietness is highly valued.** It is important to be aware of this when you are going to your hotel room at night, having conversations with friends in public should be quiet, and you will notice how quiet the subways are. There are signs indicating only quiet use of cell phones is acceptable. 

Many restaurants don’t open until late for dinner service and the Japanese seem to enjoy eating around 8 or 9PM. We did find places that opened earlier (5PM) but we really had to search for them.

Whenever you are visiting a foreign country it’s always a good idea to carry a business card for the hotel you are staying in. This can be especially so in Japan. It can **save a lot of hassle** if you get disoriented and have trouble finding your way back.

In Japan cash is gladly accepted and many places also take credit cards / debit cards. Ask first if you must. Tipping is not required in Japan.

**Some basic foods you should try** –
[Butaman (Nikuman)- a pork filled dumpling](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nikuman), can be steamed or fried.
[Tempura](https://www.chopstickchronicles.com/tempura/) – lightly breaded and quickly deep-fried fish or veggies. Properly done this should never be greasy or oily.
[Kushikatsu](https://guide.michelin.com/en/article/features/the-art-of-kushikatsu#)– different from tempura.
[Sukiyaki ](https://www.foodandwine.com/recipes/sukiyaki)– Sukiyaki is a kind of hot-pot with beef and veggies. Though this dish is more commonly prepared at home, it can be found in some restaurants.
[Yakiniku](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yakiniku) – grilled meat. 
[Takoyaki](https://tokyotreat.com/news/what-is-takoyaki-japanese-snacks-explained) – Octopus and cabbage formed into balls and fried.
[Okonomiyaki](https://www.chopstickchronicles.com/osaka-okonomiyaki/) – A savory pancake.

**Some useful phrases** –
Ohayo gozaimasu = Good morning
Konnichiwa = Hello / Good afternoon.
Konbanwa = Good evening
Ja Matane = see you later
Sayonara = Good-bye
Kudasai = Please
Arigato gozaimas = Thank you
Sumimasen = Excuse me
O Kudasai = I’d like…..
Kore wa nan des ka = what is this?
Ikura des ka = How much is this?
Okanjo wo onegashimas = check please.
Toire wa dokodes ka = where is the toilet?
Wakarimasan = I don’t understand
Hai = yes.

#### July and August in Jinan

Before leaving for Asia, I celebrated our National Independence Day on the fourth of July by enjoying a lazy day at home, mostly cleaning and preparing for my trip, followed two days later (the weekend) by a fun time at the Green Family Picnic. I am always grateful for the friendships I’ve made and [Kim and Rich, Owners of Little Creek BBQ,](http://littlecreekbarbcueco.com/blog/#menu) are gracious to invite this old **geezer** to join in. It’s a delicious feast among friendly folks who **appreciate the great abundance we enjoy here at home in America.** Good food and good times. What can be better? This year the event was held at the family home. Scheduled for after dark, we were to enjoy a short fireworks display. Unfortunately, after **feasting on the hog**, a **hell of a storm kicked-up with high wind gusts and a torrential downpour, leaving the participants a bit wet and shivering under the big canopy.** I had a plane to catch in the morning and headed out when there was a brief break in the rain. I am told that the fireworks did successfully go on later.

Next day, O’Shea arrives as my Uber driver to the airport. It’s nice to have an old friend drive me to the airport. For security reasons I feel more comfortable having someone I know transport me to the airport, when I am departing for several weeks. Additionally, **getting there she knows the alternate routes on back roads if there are traffic issues, also shows up on time and drives safely.** Thanks, Laur.

After that loooong flight I arrived Beijing, my dear one was there and we spent a few hours resting at the Novotel, ate a quick meal, or maybe we didn’t eat, I might have been still fasting from travel, then we caught the train to Jinan. I am pretty sure we were at the big house by 8:00 pm…..and it was better than sleeping in Beijing.

It was after I returned home from my Jinan trip in April / May, I began thinking about a plan to come again before next winter. It’s a difficult choice for me, as **I enjoy gardening and rural life more than living in a city….especially a city in the heat of summer.** If I plan to be away for time during the growing season I must sacrifice one of my favorite summer activities and thereby **surrender any chance for the delicious harvest of super fresh veggies.** Part of my planning required **setting up things in the garden and yard to be mostly self-sustaining**. Other plans to consider included thoughts on **which wines I should bring to share some summer flavor.** Below are a group of wines that we shared **over the course** of the summer. It’s a bit of a nuisance to carry multiple bottles of wine to China, but the reality is that the cost of imported wines in retail stores (where one is able to find a good selection) is quite high. Tariffs on wine from the Euro are 14%, which naturally drives the retail cost up. So I like to bring a few bottles to share with those students interested in learning more about wine.

The 14 year-old S[auternes – 2005 Chateau Guiraud](https://www.thewinecellarinsider.com/bordeaux-wine-producer-profiles/bordeaux/sauternesbarsac/guiraud/), with a Danish blue cheese and those Jinan specialty wafer-thin sesame crackers were a terrific match! The Sauternes started with a delicate nose of vanilla bean, almond and steamed chestnut. I had trouble identifying something else….flowery?, something sweet but nutty….allowing about 15 or 20 minutes to open up the wine revealed butterscotch and pineapple on the nose! First taste was a silky caramel and butterscotch, with hints of lilac, followed by a long ripe apricot-butter. 14 years old and delightful, but certainly up to hanging on for another decade. 

The [2015 Schloss Vollrads Spatlese](https://www.winemag.com/buying-guide/schloss-vollrads-2015-spatlese-riesling-rheingau/) was delicious with the spicy snails. This particular Spatlese is worth seeking out to purchase more. It has potential to last 12 – 15 years, with a glass cork and gasket no less! The little bottle of Muscato was light and refreshing for hot summer weather, but I’m a red wine lover, so Echo drank most of that little bottle by herself. 

Of the two reds, the first one ([Cloys du Roy / Fronsac ](https://www.wine.com/product/chateau-clos-du-roy-2015/158111)90% Merlot and 5% Cabernet Franc) went well with Echo’s handmade pork and green bean dumplings. The other, a big and delicious Gigondas was perfect with the roasted chicken we order and have delivered to the house. Side dishes of spicy flat beans with garlic and peppers, and roasted potatoes were excellent accompaniment to this Rhone. At 14.5% ABV a nose of leather and oak hiding fruits like cherry and plum. The taste was complex layers of blackberry, black currants, black pepper and cocoa. This wine is another that is worthy of holding for 5 – 7 years more. I actually think I have another bottle of this[ 2015 Gigondas.](http://domainelaroubine.com/en/gigondas.html)

The 4 year old Gigondas opened up very nicely over 90 minutes. Later it was great with a small piece of dark chocolate and a moon cake filled with dried fruits and nuts! Big reds can stand up to spicy and smoked foods, as well as rich flavors of chocolate and dried fruits. Wow! This was an all-around taste sensation!

July weather is still quite hot and **arid** in Jinan. It took me the first couple of weeks to adjust to the time zone change. After spending some days in air conditioning, with evening walks, my body **acclimated.** Echo and I enjoyed several lunches with Team Cute and with other friends over the course of my near two month stay. Also did a couple of photo-shoots, playing with portraits in low light. The girls had fun and we managed to get a few good shots. During my stay in Jinan, I was given several [gua-sha treatments](https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/320397.php) by my dear little sister Judy (aka Dr. Pain). Thank you, Judy! Unfortunately the team only had a chance to play one game of Scrabble.

All during this summer, Echo and I were determined to continue to pursue our respective weight loss goals. We worked quite well together and supported each other at being disciplined enough to walk away from the table even though we each would have liked to eat more. One method we both found to be beneficial – only eat during an 8 hour time frame. The remaining 16 hours only water. This diet works well to allow the body to naturally reduce caloric intake and to thoroughly process foods each day. I will admit that the first two to three weeks were challenging, limiting the number of calories taken at each meal and essentially only eating two meals each day was a big step down for me. Over the course of my life, I have habituated a routine of 3 meals per day. Changing that was difficult until the stomach shrinks a bit and then it becomes easier. I was also personally more motivated once I broke below 200# = 90.9 Kg. This was a big psychological barrier for me. Additionally, as the weight came off, I found my sleep was more sound as well. On a few occasions we did stray a bit from the strict schedule, but we managed to not gain back what weight had been lost.

And then[ we went to Osaka. Read here](http://english-speak-english.com/osaka-japan/)……on the flight back to Jinan, we agreed that we would like to return in the future to explore more of Japan. The cleanest country I have visited. Many people can understand and communicate in English. Plenty of great food options! We both did a few **splurges** with extra calories that should be avoided, i.e. beef, beer and ice cream….small portions….but still we walked a lot and the weight did not return.

Returning in August to Jinan can be a bit more comfortable as the **summer heat is subsiding.** Jinan doesn’t really have a “rainy season”, but the month of August will generally have more rain than any other time of year. While we had been in Osaka, it rained like crazy in Jinan!
…and before you know it it’s time to go home.

It’s been a while since we got together with our friend Vivian in Beijing. So, we met for dinner on the night before my return flight home. Her son, Thomas is now ten and I was impressed with his proficiency in spoken English.

Due to heavily sold train tickets, Echo was leaving Beijing early on the day of my flight, so I decided to get to the airport way ahead of boarding. While I was waiting, I took a 30 minute massage and then filled my water bottle twice. **Fully hydrated before boarding is a good thing and I managed to stay well watered during the entire flight.** 

Landing early is not always a bonus. We learned this when there were back-ups with **luggage carousels**, system failures with all 24 “easy-scan” passport scanners, causing the lines to jam-up for nearly an hour wait to get through customs processing. This, in turn caused further jam-ups with the luggage and by the time I made it to the luggage carousel where my fight’s luggage was supposed to be, it was complete chaos with bags and parcels **strewn all over the floor in piles.** It appeared that the luggage from two separate flights had been co-mingled. I have to say that I was embarrassed about this, because the day before I texted O’Shea and left a message asking her to not make me wait too long. Instead she was there waiting for over an hour. No other Uber drivers would do that.

I had been checking the weather report from back home in the Poconos and it was showing cooler evenings and daytime temperatures lower than in China. Summertime is nearly gone and I’ve got those U.S. Blues. End of summer chores are calling me. And the chance to catch a few ears of that wonderful sweet local corn, before the season is done. And some super-ripe beefsteak tomatoes and fresh local cantaloupe and a little down-home BBQ! Yeah, It’s good to be back.



#### Curious Collective of Nouns

Collective nouns are a strange part of the English language. Why is a group of deer called a herd, but coyotes form a pack? Well, it turns out that the unique names for groups of animals trace back to the late Middle Ages. During this time, it was fashionable for hunters to refer to groups of different types of animals by different names. Hunters took pride in the amount of collective nouns they knew.

By the 15th Century, the fashion had become so popular that there were some truly absurd collective nouns. To this day, people still find amusement in these weird words. Below are some of the best collective nouns for animals.

Sleuth of Bears
Army of Caterpillars
Clowder of Cats, interesting that it can be called a Glaring if the cats are not familiar with each other, and a litter of kittens is called a Kindle.
Covert of Coots
Murder of Crows
Unkindness of Ravens
Paddling of Ducks (on water)
Safe of Ducks (on land)
Convocation of Eagles
Charm of Finches
Business of Flies
Skulk of Foxes
Gaggle of Geese (on land)
Wedge of Geese (flying)
Cast of Hawks
Scattering of Herons
Company of Moles
Bevy of Otters
Parliament of Owls
Nursery of Raccoons
Cluster of Spiders
Drey of Squirrels 
Chattering of Starlings
Knot of Toads
Raffle of Turkeys
Bale of Turtles
Plump of Woodcock
Descent of Woodpeckers

Maybe a few new words for future games of Scrabble? 

Next time you are out hiking with friends and you come across a group of critters, add some excitement to your language and impress them with your knowledge of these curious collective nouns. 
My personal favorite has to be Unkindness of Ravens. It sure beats a Murder of Crows!

*This little bit came to us from Emma Roth, PEEC Newsletter and we thank her.

## 09/08/2019 Saturday

### DDM 597 A Slippery Slope or Our Only Hope

#### LTA

Is there an ethical argument for human gene-editing? 

#### EVC

- Stunned
- disturbing
- altered
- precise
- a rash of ~

### VOC

- The human race :mankind, humans, human kind 
- Stunned: shocked, surprised, amazed, astonished
- Claim: he SAYS he did something, but we do not have proof 
- Pushed the boundary: went further than other scientists 
- Disturbing: unnerving, inappropriate, uncomfortable
- Embryos: an unborn child from the 2nd-8th week (then it becomes a fetus)
- Implantation: in this case, to be put INTO a growing/live embryo
- Altered: modified, changed
- Resistant to: will NOT catch/be affected by
- Labs: laboratories
- Precise: exact
- Scrutiny: If a person or thing is under scrutiny, they are being studied or observed very carefully. 
  His private life came under media scrutiny. 
  The President promised a government open to public scrutiny. 
- Collectively: together
- Human kind: the human race
- A hinge: a pivoting point—a point of change
- Bioethicist: a philosophical biologist!
- Mixing ethics with mankind’s biological power/capability
- Broke: came out, was published
- Stepwise: roundabout, indirect
- To make sure: to ensure
- Postdoctoral fellow: a researcher at a university who already has his PhD
- Too trusting: believing too much in SMT/SMO
- A rash of ~: a sudden increase in ~
- Regulations: laws
- To stymie: to slow down or hinder
  - If you are stymied by something, you find it very difficult to take action or to 
    continue what you are doing. (INFORMAL)  Companies have been stymied by the length  of time it takes to reach an agreement. 
- Regulate: control
- Outcry: strong disapproval from many people (An outcry is a reaction of strong disapproval and anger shown by the public or media about a recent event. )
- Stoked: increased, fueled
- Dr. Frankenstein is everywhere
- go through trials and errors
- atomic bomb
- narcissistic : characteristic of those having an inflated idea of their own importance

Two beautiful, little Chinese girl...This is the doctor who changed the future of the human race and let the world know on YouTube. He Jiankui stunned the scientific community with the claim he pushed the boundary no one else had. A line has been crossed that should not have been crossed. It’s very disturbing. It’s inappropriate. Oh, this is huge. He says he genetically edited human embryos, not just for research but for implantation. Leading to the world’s first births of genetically altered humans—baby girls born in China from embryos designed to be resistant to HIV. Well, this specific case I feel it’s a...I feel proud actually. The tool used by He called CRISPR is found in labs around the world. It gives us the, the precise way of cutting the gene or putting a new piece of gene in. It’s often used by researchers trying to treat incurable diseases. The method itself is very easy. You can use it, everybody can use it now. Leaders in the field of gene editing have collectively agreed it’s too early to implant edited embryos in humans because of the risks, the unknowns, and the ethical questions about altering human kind. We’re at a hinge of human history.

William  Hurlbut  is  a  leading American  bioethicist who  teaches  at  Stanford University. In the months before the news broke, Dr. He consulted with him. Every time we met together, we would talk about the seriousness of the issues and in a sort of stepwise way what you had to do to make sure that it was done right. But when I heard that there were live born children from it, I thought, “Oh my gosh~ He just jumped ahead.” Hurlbut knew nothing of the plans to implant edited human embryos. Dr. He studied at Stanford as a postdoctoral fellow where he worked with leading researchers. Hurlbut describes him as smart but perhaps too trusting of his own wisdom. He’s young, he’s inexperienced and he’s, you know, he’s from a small,rural community in China. He’s research  has  been  shut  down  by  Chinese  authorities.  It’s  also  raised questions about whether there’ll be a rash of new regulations to stymie scientific development or if scientists can regulate themselves. We all want to be first, right? I mean, this is where you really feel that you’re making a huge difference and you’re getting recognition. Um, but I think in this particular case, the outcry from the community is so huge that I think you’ll slow things down. He’s work has already **stoked fears about** the future; what it could look like, how soon it could come, whether it includes designer babies and if a tool found in labs around the world could one day make them~ Alexandra Field, CNN, Hong Kong.



### E-S-E Valerie and George

Catching up with old friends has **seemed to be a theme** for me over the past year or so. Continuing the theme at the end of last week, I drove to my hometown to pay a visit to an old friend, Valerie. Her husband, George passed earlier in the year **at the age of 91**. We shared a pleasant afternoon of conversation and **catching up on our lives and activities**.

Val and George were **avid** travelers throughout their lives with friends in many **far-off places** in countries all over the world. When I asked Val how many countries she and George had visited, she had to pause and then said around 60…definitely more than 50. She still holds the passports as **mementos.**

Both Valerie and George were fluent in several languages, which helps when traveling in many foreign countries. As a former Catholic priest, George naturally had been required to learn Latin long ago in the seminary. Though Latin is considered a “dead language”, as no one speaks it anymore, it is the mother language for what are referred to as the [Romance languages](https://www.thoughtco.com/romance-languages-120610); Italian, French, Spanish and **Portuguese** and a few others. Val says she is **conversant in** French and Spanish and she can **babble** a bit in Italian. George, in addition to Latin, was fluent in French (he was of French ancestry), Spanish, Italian and began to **dabble in** Russian, but didn’t get far.

Their travel schedule was always a fascination to me. Every year, for decades, I have received a Christmas letter that always detailed their extensive travel **itineraries** and the many visits with friends in various parts of the world. One of the secrets of their international network of connections was the different ages of many of their friends. When they married in 1970, some people questioned the fact that they had 16 years between them, but I suspect it was one of the keys to the success of their relationship. With such a difference in age, they each had friends from varying ages and thus many more opportunities to meet an even wider range of people from different age groups. As they grew older they also remained **in contact with** the children of friends they had known over the years and found they were frequently invited to visit them in distant places. Among the places where they stayed as guests in the home of friends; Denmark, France, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Norway, Singapore, Spain and Thailand.

Their age difference also worked to broaden their life interests and **both remained dedicated to learning as a life activity**. [I’ve advocated many times for the importance of keeping active and engaged throughout life.](https://www.pickthebrain.com/blog/44-ways-active-makes-live-happier-meaningful-life/) **Learning new things, meeting new people, and experiencing new adventures is key to personal growth and living a full and exciting life.** I believe there have been some studies published about the positive effects of remaining active and how this slows the aging process, as well as boosting mental **acuity**.

I was saddened when I received the news of George passing, **but there is little to regret when one has lived a life as fully as he did.** He lived. He laughed. He loved. There is nothing else any of us could ask for.

To close out this post I will share Valerie’s **answer to the question I posed**; What advice would you offer young travelers? She was clear that some of the best trips that she and George had experienced were the times when they **went to one place and remained there for the entire period of their holiday.** She insisted that when a traveler takes the time to stay**-put and savor a week or more of the sights, the sounds and the culture of just one place, it is then that the traveler comes to fully learn from and enjoy the real benefits of a holiday abroad.** I will call that solid advice from a **seasoned traveler**.

