**Table of Content**

[TOC]



# June 2019

## 6/1/2019

### DDM 576

#### LTA

What was your favorite COMIC (newspaper cartoon) when you were a kid?



- Concept: idea
- Being separated: when a couple “stops seeing each other” in order to take time to think about whether they want to be together or to separate Breaking  up:  separating  for  good—the  couple  has  decided  they  are  going  to  separate
- Fooling  around:  this  is  a  double-entendre.  I’ll  explain  in  the  EXPLANATION  video!
- Hairdo: hairstyle. Did President Trump get a new hairdo?
- Rocky: on the rocks, not very stable, precarious
- Mm-hmm: yes
- I have a thing for ~: I (often) secretly like (or dislike) SMO/SMT
- I have to admit: I must be honest
- To  be  sponge-worthy:  to  be  worthy  of  “casual  s*x”.    A  “sponge”  is  a  form  of  birth control. 
- Waiting out ~: waiting for something to die/disappear/leave
- I really had my eye on ~: I really wanted 
- Taking up: using up (wastefully) 
- I gotta tell you: I must be honest
- Method: a form of acting where the actor tries to completely become his character Intense: very difficult/strenuous/taxing
- Falling apart: to disintegrate, to come apart
- Taut: firm—lean but muscular

#### EVC

- rocky    

- I have a thing for ~

- I really had my eye on    
- taking up    
- falling apart



## 06/06/2019

### DDM 577

#### LTA

Have you ever had caviar? Did you like it/who paid/was it worth it/would you eat it again? What’s another extravagant delicacy you have or would like to try?



- Change the conversation: change the opinion/view/stigma 
- Considered: thought of as
-  Delicacy: a very expensive and uncommon food
- Instrumental: important
- Ceremony: tradition, atmosphere, culture
- A tin: a container (made out of tin)
- Bolster: pump up, reinforce
- Everyday: regular, typical
- Gilded: if something is gilded—it’s only for the wealthy (high society)
- Cut out: get rid of, eliminate
- Approachable: easy to buy/be with/obtain Sustainable: something that can be “kept/operated” forever without any negative impact to the environment
- Readily: easily
- Divey: cheap,  not-too-clean  and NOT for “the gilded class of people”.  Typically  referring  to a bar.
-  Getting into: becoming interested in 
- Did due diligence: to have done the necessary research   
- Stigma: a shameful/negative image about someone or something
- A big occasion: a celebration
- Judged: viewed 
- **Hoity-toity**: snobbish. If you are hoity-toity, you think everyone else is below you 
- Messaging: marketing
- **Unabashedly**: without shame

#### EVC

- instrumental:

- everyday      

- cut out      

- did due diligence      

- stigma



### 06/10/2019

### DDM 578

#### LTA

Do you still wear jeans? Have you ever? Is there an age to stop wearing jeans?What is/was your favorite brand of jeans?

- Moron: idiot
- Whoa:  an  exclamatory  word  used  when  something  bad  happens  or  almost happens
- Nauseous: feeling like you are going to throw up
- Vomit: throw up
- Move: strategy
- Teeming with: full of—overflowing with
- Tenant: renter
- Rent-controlled building: a building that can NOT increase rent prices freely
- Grieving time: period of time to “get over” (heal, mend) their broken hearts
- A luxury I can’t afford: something that is NOT important for my survival. 
  - Time is a luxury I cannot afford→I don’t have TIME TO RELAX Time is very  valuable and  I  must  use it  wisely. TIME  is  a  LUXURY  that I CANNOT WASTE. Holding the door for a lady is a luxury you cannot afford when the building is on fire→Normally, holding the door open for a lady is a polite thing men should do, but if the building is on fire, being POLITE is a LUXURY that is TOO EXPENSIVE!
- A clean shot: an easy chance
- Likewise: the same (as me)Make it seem like: make it appear as though
- A period: a time
- Folksy: friendly, sociable, nice, chit-chatty
- Dungarees: jeans
- Worked in: broken in, loosened up
- It’s nobody’s business: it’s very private/personal
- Wiggle: move back and forth quickly(especially your butt)—like when you dance.
- Squinch in: tighten together, scrunch
- Hold it: wait
- Get the door: open OR close the door
- Jaws of Life: hydraulic tool inserted into a wrecked vehicle and used to pry the wreckage apart in order to provide access to people trapped inside.

#### EVC

- moron
- teeming with
- likewise
- make it seem
- it’s nobody’s business



## 06/16/2019

### DDM 579

- is bad enough: USED TO CONTRAST: •Smoking is bad enough but smoking after a meal is even worse. •Skipping exercise is bad enough but  skipping exercise AND  eating an entire cake is even worse! 
- Binds: sticks to
- Absorb: to soak up/into. A sponge will absorb water Carcinogens: cancer causing substances 
- Due to...: because of~
-  nature: ~ characteristic 
- Acid reflux: when stomach acid goes up into your esophagus
- One: a person, anyone, someone
- Thus: thereby, therefore
- Interfere: in this case;cause problems 
- Deficiency: a lack of (not having enough)
-  Lead to: cause
- Anemia: when you have fewer red blood cells circulating MEANING the blood is  not carrying enough oxygen 
- Dizziness: feeling like everything is spinning
- Fatigue: exhaustion
- Be it: whether it is A or B (or C or D...)Neglect: fail to
- Spoiled: rotten
- Spoiling: rotting
- Clumping: when things bind together into a large “clump”   or ball. If it’s too cold, snow will not clump together and you cannot make a snowman.

#### LTA

Which of these six NO-NOs are you guilty of ?
The six NO-NOs here didn’t include my after meal habit.  Usually when I finish my meal, I will go to wash dishes while watching some TV shows , Youtube Videos, or listen to podcast. I don’t know if this habit will put my body in a risk. However, according to the reasoning in this article,  I do think my habit is not good for digestion because it distributes the energy and blood flow required for digestion elsewhere. 

#### EVC 

- Is bad enough: Getting cold is bad enough, but missing the flight to the conference, it drives her crazy.

- Due to: I don’t like the movie due to the poor performance of the actors.

- Nature: The war was caused by the autocratic nature of the empire.

- Deficiency: Water deficiency becomes a crisis to the city.

- Be it:  Everyday, I have to do some workout,  be it a five minutes yoga or an hour indoor cycling.  

  - <be it is like "whether it be", a kind of conditional> 

  

I can't say anything to their **veracity**, but I do know that for generations (probably centuries...probably since the beginning of beds and sweets) humans LOVE to take a nap after a big meal and moms tell their kids to eat the healthy stuff and save the sweet stuff for last! Regarding micronutrient deficiencies--I agree with that. Especially since many people rely on processed foods and restaurants for their nutrition. Companies do NOT have your health in mind, they have their **coffers** in mind. And unfortunately, nowadays, doctors are about as trustworthy as an "inexperienced housewife". 

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1508536/

https://www.npr.org/sections/goatsandsoda/2018/10/12/656198429/rate-of-c-sections-is-rising-at-an-alarming-rate

**Everything in moderation...**I think those words are the best! And they can be applied to almost everything! 

- Veracity: (formal) the quality of being true; the habit of telling the truth
  Synonym: TRUTHFULNESS
  Some people questioned the veracity of her story

- coffer: A coffer is a large strong chest used for storing valuable objects such as money or gold and silver

  

## 06/22/2019

### DDM 580

- Quirks: strange things you do, an idiosyncrasy/peculiarity. I have a quirk when it comes to drinking out of a can—IALWAYS leave the tab up.
- Getting on my nerves: bothering me
- Pick up the pieces: **mend** my broken heart and look to the future and for new love
- What’s with the ~:why do you have ~, why are you wearing ~, WHY?!!
- Take a seat: have a seat, sit down
- Crap: BS, line, nonsense
- A stroke of genius: an instance of brilliance
- Never mind: in this case; don’t be so modest
- The man of the hour: our hero, the star
- In prime position to ~:a perfectly ready to, are in the best place to 
- Pouncing position: ready like a CAT to pounce on a MOUSE!
- Scoop ~ up: grab, get
- Before they know what hit them: lickety-split, in the blink of an eye
  - Lickety-split: With great speed. adv
- Get physical: get tough, throw down, use my fists

#### EVC

- Quirk:  I can’t help but notice his quirk of saying “you know” in every sentence.

-  What’s with the: What’s with the beers? Do you have a big party tonight? 

- Crap: This recorder stopped working after just one week. What a crap!

- A stroke of genius: The idea of meal-prep is a stroke of genius! 

- Before he knows what hit him: He was saturated in the feeling of “success” before he knew what hit him.

  

### PIRF 65

MyPIRF: 

How was your 2015 (or whichever year!)? Answer in an MP3 file. Don’t make your mp3 longer than 90 seconds. Keep it short. Don’t speak too fast! Don’t make your sentences too long!! Remember, you want people to understand what you are saying ! 



## 06/22/2019 

### DDM 581

- The days of ~ are done: we used to ~~ but not anymore
- The chancellor level: the head/top management of a school 
- More downside than upside: more bad/negative things will happen IF you do something compared to good/positive things
- Closer to the tree: in this case;picking“fruit”this is easier/safer to pick. In the picture you see Winnie the Pooh standing on a tree branch FAR from the tree. What do you think will happen? He’ll fall, of course. He’s a silly bear. He should have stayed closer to the tree where it’s safe. 
- Seeking you out: looking for you specifically (for training)
- Star pupils: students who became very successful 
- Didn’t know shit: didn’t know anything
- No baggage: no emotional scars/trauma...no improper upbringing
- Big time: a HUGE amount
- Their parents fucked them up: their parents destroyed their future—their parents raised them wrong!
- Procreate: have babies/progeny 
- Collectively: all of us 
- Mentees: people whom I’ve mentored/taught/guided
- Exaggerating: hyperbolizing, making stuff up
- College: the  individual  SPECIALTY  school  within  a university: the College of Medicine, the Engineering College, the Fine Arts College, the Business College, etc. Here’s the University of Minnesota’s...
- The show: the entertainment, the lights and sounds

#### EVC

- the days of ~ are done

- more downside than up side

- no baggage

- big time

- college

#### LTA



## 06/23/2019

I've been encouraged by an old friend to **press on with** my writing and this is one of my first essays.....outside of the usual blog stuff.

http://english-speak-english.com/essay-109-little-boy-lost/

- press on with: continue moving forward

- riveting: If you describe something as riveting, you mean that it is extremely interesting and exciting, and that it holds your attention completely. 

> The little boy knew intuitively that things were not right in his home, but he just didn’t understand what had happened to make everyone so sad and so quiet. **It seemed** his mom sat around crying all day for the past week. His daddy **looked pale with dark bags under his eyes**. When the boy would ask, “Where is Tom-Tom?”, everyone became more sad and then, they would say, “Tommy has gone to heaven.” And all the little boy could think was, where is heaven? And when will he be back? On Saturday morning after breakfast, while his mother and dad were sitting quietly in their sadness, the doorbell rang. The little boy ran, as every child does, to see who was at the door. As his father opened the door, the child noticed it was Tommy’s friend, Jimmy.
>
> Jimmy said, “Good morning!  Can Tommy come out to play?”
>
> The little boy thought, “Maybe we will get a better answer than ‘gone to heaven’ now.”
>
> The boy’s father tried to respond to the question, but his words choked him. The tall and fit man now in his mid-thirties, a decorated combat veteran of WW2, fell to the floor sobbing. Both Jimmy and the little boy looked upon the elder with confusion. Then, Jimmy ran home crying.

- looked pale with dark bags under his eyes
- a decorated veteran of WW2

Much of what I have **discerned** about the events following the death of my older brother have been gathered in pieces, many of them learned only much later in life, from cousins and neighbors. The little boy in the story (me) had suppressed this memory until 58 years later when the event was recounted to him by Jimmy’s younger sister.  

- Discern:
- suppress:
- relay: the act of passing something along from one person or group to another

At the moment she shared that story, the images of that day came **flooding over** me. It was such a strange feeling, like a **slow-motion dream with flashes of vivid images.** I realized that the story she told me, as **relayed** by her brother, was an actual event in which I was present. But the memory of it had been stuffed down a hole.

When Michele (Jim’s sister) told me the story this past Christmas, I could imagine myself about three when it happened. The entire episode, I believe, impressed upon my psyche some sort of unreconcilable gloom and left me with a life of creeping depression always lurking around me, like a dark cloud overhead and a strange feeling of loneliness, like I always missed someone.   I could never really put my finger on what was **bugging** me. Until later in life, after speaking with cousins who were closer to Tommy’s age and remembered him.  

Tommy was the big brother who never came back to finish playing our game together.  He just left and, as I was told, “went to heaven”.  My parents never really talked about him.  My mom went into some deep depression and **fell into the bottle for a time**.  My father **dove into** his work and **withdrew from many things**.  

The cause of death was Spinal Meningitis….where it came from is anybody’s guess.  At the time they were fearful that I might have contracted the same thing. I was hospitalized for several days’ observation, which included multiple spinal taps.  My dad was in tears when he told me about this many years later. The health authorities came around and vaccinated anyone who had been in contact with young Tom.  **To add further hurt to the grieving mother,** they also required that all of the deceased child’s toys and bed clothes be burned to prevent any possibility of the spread of the virus.  

When my brother Tom died, my younger brother was a baby, under a year old. As a consequence of this tragedy, he was **overly-coddled** by my mother and I was simultaneously abandoned emotionally and **left to fend for myself.**  

- If you have to fend for yourself, you have to look after yourself without 
  relying on help from anyone else.

My Dad died at 85 in 2005.  In the months before he died, I was dealing with my own troubles, far away on the left coast and I **harbor a bit of guilt** for not being available to assist him.  Mom passed at 94 in 2018.  She **outlived** four siblings by more than 30 years.  She was an anomaly in her gene pool, no doubt! She was essentially a good person with a kind heart, but she was a NYC girl with a **tough outer-shell** and a stubbornness like you can’t believe. My guilt was washed away after dealing with my dear mom for her final 10 years on this planet. **It almost felt like a form of penance!**  

When I was younger, I **was resentful** in some ways, but later in life, I came to understand that was pretty selfish. Even though, I was emotionally abandoned at a very early age, I know that it was not my parents’ fault. **No one comes equipped with a trusty guidebook on how to deal with unexpected familial tragedy**. So, I think that trying to forgive is a worthwhile **endeavor**, even if you don’t particularly like the person.

While helping Mom during the time of Dad’s funeral, I came upon a video. Mom had paid someone to convert old family 8mm movie film that Dad used to shoot onto a video format. **There were a lot of old memories stirred by that video**. And there was some **footage** of the day Mom and I came home from Chilton Memorial Hospital after my birth. As I watched this old film roll on, I was **consumed by a sort of diaphanous vision**. What an amazing feeling of mysterious warmth I experienced seeing this footage for the first time so late in my life. It felt like a warm blanket covering me! **This was a different perspective (with my dad as the cameraman) than the view I had in real life at the time.** If you can believe it, I remembered my brother’s beautiful smile as he greeted me and welcomed me to our family’s home. The video was haunting — eerie, ethereal, a true sense of *Deja vu*. It’s quite amazing what the human mind can store, suppress, wash-out and then surprisingly and unexpectedly be **triggered to resurface,** allowing it to be seen from a different angle.

**
Dear readers, 
This year, I have begun to **dabble in** expanding and improving my writing through the use of essays, some fictional and others about real life experiences. It was after reconnecting with an old friend from high school and learning of her background as a writer and editor that I shared a couple of short essays to get some feedback from a professional. Her comments were very encouraging and she inspired me to continue writing and see where it may take me. One thing I have learned is that **I am not such a bad writer after all**. I am a terrible editor!
I shared this story with her and asked for feedback. 
Obviously the subject matter in this particular essay is profoundly sad on a very personal level for me. However, with the encouragement of my editor friend, I feel like some sort of emotional weight has been lifted in some way. Hard to explain. In any case, the final version is what “came back from the editor”. 
I can tell you that it was much, much better than my draft. It was better organized for the reader to understand clearly and concisely. **This final version also flows more easily and that is essential to the art of writing.** I am grateful for the help my friend has provided. The corrections were instructive and helpful for improving my writing and I think the final product is more **coherent.**



## 06/24/2015



I am always pleased to hear from you, Angelina!  I hope you are well.  

Your question is actually a good one for the comment section after the article.  Would you mind if we posted it there?  It may be helpful for other students.

To answer and hopefully clarify, I would say that this particular essay could be called a "personal essay".  Other types of essays may strive to make a point, tell a story, or even, sell a product.  For the most part, I consider a lot of what I post on my blog as just sharing a basic idea with some links to help inform the reader....very basic.  I use it as a sort of starting point for dialogue during lessons.  Though, I have written some short essays like, Ice Fishing (based on true events) and posted them on the blog.  Perhaps I should have used the term "personal essay" and for the slightly longer pieces we could call them "short stories". Not sure where the cut-off is....maybe in the number of words / pages.

Advancing to actually writing essays is more creative, takes a bit more time (especially editing) and could possibly **garner some sort of offer to** write for a magazine or website (wishful thinking or maybe I'm dreaming).  

Here is a link that may be useful for you;
http://www.hunter.cuny.edu/rwc/handouts/the-writing-process-1/invention/Five-Qualities-of-Good-Writing

and this for more detail;
https://coolessay.net/blog/post/good-essay

oh, and one last thing, short stories can often be fiction.  In fact, some of the stories I have written drafts for are personal stories in which I've changed the names of characters and places to avoid any legal problems.  In other words, one can write a fictional story, based on real life events, but by changing names and places, no one can **sue you for** failing to give credit or for **defamation / slander**.

sorry, libel not slander
https://www.legalzoom.com/articles/differences-between-defamation-slander-and-libel

Libel is written
slander is spoken

I will, of course, post pics and other content upon my return.  Echo and I will also take a two week trip to Italy in October.  That trip will hopefully have a lot of cool pics from museums in Florence and the wine country of Tuscany!  Stay tuned 



Jessica Wolf -
http://www.wolfwebb.com/college-essay-help

If you do happen to contact Jess, please be sure to let her know I sent you......and don't believe any stories she tells you about my high school days!  lol

more reading material;

https://www.visualcapitalist.com/imo-2020-the-big-shipping-shake-up/

Love the Visual Capitalist website!  So cool!

Seeing large amounts of data in chart / graph format makes it all so much more digestible, easier to comprehend.



## 06/25/2015

- in-kind: 

  (1) consisting of something (as goods or commodities) other than money <in-kind relief for the poor>

  (2) in a similar way

- personnel:  a body of persons usually employed (as in a factory, office, or organization) b personnel plural :

- 



## 06/26/2019

LME 

Hi ,

Yes—I'm finally home.

 5,000 miles! I left home around 1pm on Saturday and returned this morning (Wednesday) around 9am. VERY intensive driving! 

So, what was I doing? Well, as you know, I have a family. And it's time for me to buy a home. So, I went house-hunting. Can you guess where?! 

I'll start by **dropping a few clues**! After a few days, someone might guess where!

Clue #1

The church above is nothing special--except that it is quite old and I thought the steeple standing against the blue sky was so impressive.

This place is "on the way" to where I was house-hunting. I actually stayed two nights at a very quaint B&B here. And I was VERY happy to find a beer that I have fallen in love with!

Hmm... Look at the houses and buildings in the background...

 I'm not much of a breakfast guy. Coffee is usually all I need to start the day. But in this small village, there was NO Starbucks and I did not have my coffeemaker. So, I went down to the small dining area and peeked under that red & white checkered towel and discovered two varieties of croissants and a few bagels, too!

The area I was in is very popular for its food and tradition. In fact, the people there are VERY proud of their history. 

Hmm... 

Where was I?!!

I'm guessing NO ONE will know at this point. Don't worry, I'll keep giving you clues.

If you have ANY questions about the pictures above, let me know. I'll try and answer them in tomorrow's email. And June is almost over--that means a NEW MONTH is about to begin. 

Are you ready to join me in class? I'll have a special this week--maybe tomorrow. You will NOT want to miss it!

Have a great day and talk to you tomorrow,





## 6/27/2019

### LME 118

**TO LEARN: sharp, hustled, all over, private well, occupied, realtor, needless to say, jam-packed, downsize, mancave, the best of shape, fixture**

**CORRECTION** to yesterday's email: NOT 5,000 MILES, rather 5,000 kilometers (3,000 miles!)

 Did anyone guess where I was after looking at the two pictures yesterday? I’ll tell you that answer PLUS another hint picture at the end of this email!

House-hunting is fun, but it is very exhausting! I started at 9am **sharp** *(precisely)* and we finished the day at just after 5pm. We **hustled** *(worked hard and fast)* **all over** *(everywhere)* spending about 30 minutes at each property.

In the end, there were three places that I liked. One place was especially nice. The house wasn’t the greatest, but there were many other benefits like low taxes, a good location and a **private well** *(a drilled hole in the ground to access water for your home)* with excellent water!

Most of the houses were **occupied** *(lived in)*, but a few were empty. It’s VERY weird walking into someone else’s house when they are not there. The **realtor** *(the person who sells homes)* kept telling me to “Feel free! Open doors and cupboards and closets! This is your house for 30 minutes!!” Well, **needless to say** *(obviously)*, I wasn’t very good at “feeling free”! But I did see some interesting things!

These are **canopy** beds! VERY antique. In fact, the house that had these beds was **jam-packed** *(completely full)* with wonderful antique furniture. And every piece of furniture had a little memo stuck to it saying something like, “Mom, I want this one!”. I guess the owner of the house is a grandmother who wants to **downsize** *(get rid of a lot of things and live a simpler life)*. The house, by the way, was built in 1851!

I even looked at a small farm with a HUGE, empty barn. Wow! I would LOVE to build my office and studio inside a huge barn like that! It would be the greatest **mancave** *(a room with things that MEN love)* ever! Of course, my wife would not be happy about that~ And the house was not in **the best of shape** *(great condition)*, either.

Finally, a house that included a very important **fixture** *(necessity)* for a true mancave—a pool table (aka, a billiards table). But the location of the table was on the 2nd floor and it was directly next to several windows! Pool balls can come OFF the table—they would crash through the window! What a nightmare. So, I had to say “No!” to that house, too.



More house-related stuff coming! And now, another clue as to WHERE I was. But first, thank you for the many emails TRYING to guess where I was. Two people gave answers that I thought were really good. Luciano guessed that maybe I was in Ohio and Igor guessed that I was in Canada. Hmm, very good guesses. Perhaps…one of them is correct!

Check out the picture below. Look carefully. Keep your guesses coming!

A quick recap: **sharp, hustled, all over, private well, occupied, realtor, needless to say, jam-packed, downsize, mancave, the best of shape, fixture**

 

That’s it for today, Phrasal Verb Friday is tomorrow! 😊

## 06/28/2019

