[TOC]



## 08/01/2019

### DDM 589

#### LTA

What's the biggest wildlife in your country? Have you seen it in nature? Is it dangerous?

#### EVC

- pretty: The presentation is pretty impressive
- no issue
- ~lost interest
- sadly
- give ~ some space

### VOC

- Pretty: watch the Explanation video!
- Recovering: getting better—regaining one’s health. Could be at the hospital or could be at home
- No issue: no problem—especially when you would ASSUME there WOULD be a problem
- Out of nowhere: suddenly, all of a/the sudden
- Tossing: throwing—especially haphazardly or carelessly
- Taunting: teasing
- Remarkably: amazingly, luckily, fortunately~ 
- lost interest: became disinterested
- Sadly: unfortunately
- Gored: when an animal attacks and gets you with its horn/horns/antlers~ 
- to date: until now, so far
- Give ~ some space: don’t get too close

### PIRF 72

Remeber: **Make your sound come from your stomache**

A:I cannot believe Lindsay's still seeing you after that fight you had.

B:I think she finds my stupidity charming.

A:As we all do.

B:Yeah. Anyway, she's having some kind of a family lunch.I'll swing by after.

A:Oh, so you're gonna meet the mother?

B:Yeah, I'll zip in, “How do you do?”, zip out. She'll love me.

A:You're good with the mothers.

B:You know, I'm better with the mothers than I am with the daughters.

A:Maybe you should date the mothers~



## 08/05/2019 Monday

### LME 142

**TO LEARN: August in the USA**

August is a VERY important month in the USA—especially for people under the age of 23. August is the END of summer…and by the middle or end of August, it’s time to go BACK to school!

This time of year, especially in the north where I live, there are many festivals and carnivals. When I was a kid in Park Falls, Wisconsin, we enjoyed Flambeau-Rama!

It was our local carnival with many rides, **softball tournaments**, dancing and drinking. Of course, the drinking was only for the adults! And tractor pulls! Those were great!!


When I was a kid, I was a HUGE fan of the **tilt-a-whirl** amusement ride. But now—just thinking about it makes me sick!


The giant swing or the **Ferris wheel** are much more my style now. Maybe even a merry-go-round!


The Viking. Not a fan. Bumper cars. Huge fan. Dunk Tank. Huge fan!


Carnival games…love them but they TAKE ALL MY MONEY! Cotton candy. Give me more!


Ah…the smell of cotton candy, the sound of the carnival, the hot days but the quickly cooling nights~~ It’s still summer, but it’s almost over!

Next week, let’s talk about BACK TO SCHOOL!

Enjoy your August! Send some pictures of YOU and AUGUST!

**A quick recap: August in the USA**



## 08/06/2019 Tuesday

### LME Tuesday Magazine



Summer is ALMOST over--so HAVE a SUPER time.

Whenever you have a break, enjoy the sun.

Whenever you get a chance, get outside.

Not only does the sun give your body Vitamin D (super necessary for your health) it also helps your mood.

The BLUES and GREENS of nature are very soothing on your mind. Much better than anything mankind can create.

Every season has its benefits, but this season is ALMOST over, so take advantage of it!

- Victoria

This Tuesday's magazine blew me away^^ WOW! I reckon, at the beginning of 2020, we will meet your new bundle of joy! Thanks for sharing your happiness with us!  

I wish all the best to you and your growing family. May this special time be filled with love and joy. Congratulations!
Thank you SO much! Yes, that's exactly right. Doctors tell us that Mikey will have a new baby brother BEFORE the new year!! We are so happy and hopeful! Not sure how Mikey feels~!! 

- Vivian

 Congratulations, Coach Shane!  According to the last picture of your newsletter, Mikey will have a younger sister or brother! Did I get it right?

I got your newsletter and you said July was tough on you. I want to say these months have been tough on me, too.

On May 18th, I lost the one who loved me the most in the world. My father passed away in the hospital. 
He lived to be 85. For me, it wasn’t long enough. 

Baba saw me when his bed was pushed out of the ICU room the day after his surgery. He looked good. I called him, “Baba.” He asked me, “Are you picking me up to take me out of the hospital?” I didn’t answer but asked, “Are you hungry?” 

“Yes.”  “What do you want to eat?”  “Wonton noodles.”  

I went downstairs to buy a bowl of noodles, a bowl of hot milk and an egg. I fed him. He had a very good appetite--better than ever. He ate everything except the egg.

I didn’t realize that he already knew where he was going. I told him I will bring dinner to him later that afternoon. No one knew that was the last farewell.  

In June, my son Jimmy lost his opportunity to go to high school this year. It’s hard to understand and believe it. His grades on the high school entrance exam were average. We made a mistake or I overestimated his scores. We don’t want him to go to a private school with high tuition or a school far away from home. He would have to go to school very early everyday or we have to rent a house near the school.

So, we made a decision to keep fighting one more year in order to go to a better high school so that he might have more confidence in “GAOKAO”( the university entrance exam ) in the future. 

In fact, he regretted that he didn’t do his best. He promised he would work much harder for next year. 

On the good side, we traveled to Northwest China in July. It was amazing!

That’s the Chinese ancient Silk Road.  I felt so proud of my country during the trip because of the territory, history, ancient arts and culture.  Below is the biggest lake in China, Qinghai Lake. It’s like an ocean, isn’t it?

This is another lake in Qinghai province. It’s a salt lake. Its name in English is Jadeite because its color is like jade. You can also see the snow mountains in distance. So wonderful!

Two Tibetans and an endless flower field. 

It’s summertime, but the weather was very cold in the high land, 3800 meters altitude.

I had to wear a down jacket. 

We saw double rainbows in the sky after a thunderstorm!

I met some **Lamas** who were discussing Buddhism in a temple.

The Great Wall, the desert and a sand mountain. The sands have five different colors.  

The most impressive thing I saw was **Mo Kao Grotto** at Dunhuang, **the largest site of Buddhist art in the world. There are almost one thousand caves. Numerous painters and Buddhists took a thousand years and four dynasties to build and paint them.** 

The last one is my son Jimmy. He’s very shy and doesn’t like to take pictures. 

I hope he will make great progress in the exam next year, not only his grades but also learning methods and self-confidence.  


Hi Vivian! 

 Oh...the story of your father **brought tears to my eyes.** As you may know, I lost my mother early this year. I wish I could have been there--I'm SO glad that you were there. **Those memories will be cherished**. And I hope your son was able to have a good relationship with him, too. After all, school is important, but family is MUCH more important.

Your pictures and travels are EXCELLENT. You have visited places that I would also LOVE to visit. Thank you for sharing your pictures and your life with us! Please update us with all the news!



- Nour-Eddine

Hi Shane Since I came back here to Paris, I have been very busy.

I finally found time today to tell you more about our trip to the United States of America. 

Monday morning, May 27th, it was raining. We left Cleveland, Ohio and headed west to Michigan. We stopped in Saugatuck on the shores of Lake Michigan.

The weather was bad and the chain ferry didn’t work.


The day after we headed north to Michigan’s Upper Peninsula.  Driving on the Mackinac Bridge was an amazing experience. The bridge is a very, very long **suspension bridge**: 4.995 mi; 8.038 km. Arghh, I didn’t take any pictures of the bridge.

Our first stop in UP was Sault Ste Marie lock and dam. Big ships were coming and going between Lake Huron and Lake Superior

We rested a few days in Watersmeet, Michigan. Waterfalls were everywhere here. They say **Michigan has more than 200 waterfalls.**

But our aim was Minnesota. So we settled down first in Two Harbors, about 30 miles north of Duluth.


And if you are in this area, you have to go to Betty’s Pie. They made **divine** pies. We bought a five layer chocolate pie. It was fantastic.

North Minnesota is a very beautiful country. Lake Superior offers breathtaking views.


But the neighboring Wisconsin also offers beauties like the Apostle Islands Lake Shore. We took a tour through the Apostle Islands, three hours to view islands, lighthouses, old fishing camps and the wonderful sea caves of Devil's Island.


On the back way to home, we stopped to grab something in a nice bar.


If you wish, next week I’ll show you what we saw and did in the Twin Cities and on the Mississippi River.

Have a good week. 

Hi Nour-Eddine, 

What a fantastic journey in areas I am **somewhat familiar with**. I know the names, but I have not been there. Actually, I was in Sault Ste Marie in June. It was part of my journey through Canada looking for a final destination for my family! BUT...your pictures and the memories you made are so much more fantastic! 

YES!!! Keep updating and sharing your journey with us. Even though you are back safe at home, I want to know MORE! More FOOD, more PLACES, more RAIN and more SUNSHINE!!

So far, it looks like you two were having a great time!

- Vasily

 Hi, Coach Shane! I am intrigued by your last picture! :)

This summer is quickly flying by. Here are some moments of it. And thank you for your great lessons and upgrades!

Have a nice week!

Hi Vasily, I'm very happy you like the lessons and upgrades! I'm doing my best!! Who are all these people? Your family? Where are you? Is the little one your son? Did you eat the mushroom? The pictures are REALLY nice!! Don't be afraid to describe them for us. FEAR NOT--I will fix any English problems!!!

See you this week in AMA, Vasily!

- Finally, from Coach Shane

TODAY (Tuesday, August 6, 2019) is National Rootbeer Float Day.  Rootbeer is NOT beer. It's a soda. And it's really good. But it's really gooder with ice cream!! (Yes, I know, "really gooder" is NOT good English. But I'm talking about ICE CREAM and ROOTBEER!)

Oh~~ The blending of the two ingredients is HEAVENLY. I'm using a small mason jar for my ROOTBEER FLOAT. The taste is out of this world. Rootbeer alone is nice, but mixed with the creaminess of French Vanilla ice cream...OOH LA LA!!!

My son is getting braver and braver! His virgin feet walking for the FIRST TIME on a sandy beach. Actually, the beach was not that "nice". There were lots of bits of shells... Can you imagine what it's like to touch something FOR THE FIRST TIME! 

Scary. Exciting. Strange. Too much! 

Living life again THROUGH my son is one of the most amazing gifts in the world. 

And being able to help YOU with your English...I'm so thankful and blessed.

You guys have a fantastic week. Send your pictures and my best to you and your families!

 

## 08/07/2019 Wednesday

### LME 144

**TO LEARN: The only stupid question is…**

Hi ,

 Video lesson today! I took it while out with Mikey—I tried to make the video smooth DESPITE walking. If the video bothers you, just listen to the audio, okay?

It’s GOOD ADVICE for Wednesday’s Wisdom!



A quick recap: **The only stupid question is…**

Have a great day—and tomorrow I’ll be tackling a great question! 😊

**Coach Shane**



## 08/08/2019 Thursday

### DDM 591 Pickup Picked Up

Let’s Talk About It... send your MP3s to dailydictationmembers@gmail.com

Do you wear a seatbelt? Always? What about people in the passenger seat/ backseat?

Everyone’s Vocab Challenge... Add your example sentence to our BOXNOTE in the LTA folder! 

- covering      
-  traffic        
- a number of        
- pry ~ open      
-  scrapes



### PIRF 73

Everywhere, you see all the divisiveness and the hatred that goes on in our society.We have a war on virtually everything --race wars, gender wars, income wars, religious wars, age wars. Every war you can imagine; we have people at each other's throat. 

Where did that spirit come from in America? Wherever it came from we need to start once again recognizing that there is such a thing as right and wrong. And let's not let the secular progressives drive that out of us.

The majority of people in America actually have values and principles and they believe in the very things that made America great. They've been beaten into submission. It's time for us to stand up for what we believe in.

Source:www.washingtonpost.com/news/the-fix/wp/2016/01/14/6th-republican-debate-transcript-annotated-who-said-what-and-what-it-meant/



## 08/12/2019 Monday

### LME 146

**TO LEARN: Back to School!**

When I was a kid, I LOVED going back to school. And August is when the new school year starts in the USA. My school always started on the second-to-last Monday in August. So, for this year, that would be August 19th—one week from today! There were four main reasons why I loved going back to school:

- I got to be with all of my friends again.
- Sports! All the school sports teams started and the games were great.
- NEW school supplies and school clothes.
- I did enjoy SOME of my classes!

I lived in a small town and a LOT of the kids lived here-and-there in a huge area—way out in the country. I had friends like Bob and Joe who lived very far away and during summer vacation it was almost impossible to meet them. So school was great!

In the fall, football (not soccer!) and cross country were my favorite sports. I was a little too skinny to play football, but I loved going to the games every Friday night. I was perfect, however, for cross country! And I loved not only the racing, but the training, too. The distance we ran was 5 kilometers (3.1 miles) and I had a spectacular experience! My best time was 15:45.

Regarding the classes that I liked—it wasn’t really the subject, it was the teacher. Mrs. Bogdonovich, Mr. Swenson and Mr. Delwiche were my absolute favorite teachers. Mrs. Bogdonovich was my 2nd grade elementary school teacher. She allowed me to study as fast as I wanted, and by the end of my 2nd grade year, I had finished all the reading and math books for not only 2nd grade, but 3rd and 4th grade, too! Mr. Swenson was one of my math teachers. He was SUPER boring, but I really liked his style of showing us example after example after example—he was my favorite math teacher! And Mr. Delwiche taught history. He LOVED to talk about controversial things and really challenged us to question everything. Including the news! And that was back in the '80s! Now most people in the USA question the news!

Finally—every year to start the new school year, all the students had new clothes and new school supplies! Notebooks, folders, pencils, erasers, highlighters, colored pens… Even now when I see the back-to-school sales at the stores, I kind of wish I had to buy some stuff! Fortunately, in a few years, I’ll have to take Mikey to buy stuff! It’s going to be great 😊

 

A quick recap: **Back to School!**

Have a great week! Next week, let’s talk about LUNCH BOXES! 😊



### DDM 592

#### LTA

Jerry and Kramer’s friendship ends. Because of Jeannie. Guys, has this happened to you—ending a friendship because of a woman? Do guys have that effect on women? 

#### EVC

- Cheap:  The items on sale don't look CHEAP at all. 
- skimping: Don't SKIMP on your daily exercises. You'll see the benefits in the long run. 
- right up ~ alley: Her simple but enchanting writing style is RIGHT UP my ALLEY. 
- the get-go:  I know you will succeed in this plan from the GET-GO
- entitled to:  When you become a membership, you will be ENTITLED TO participate in the monthly seminar. 

#### VOC

- Cheap: low quality
- Skimping: trying VERY HARD to save moneyby (usually) buying the cheapest item available
- My act: my performance
- Right up ~ alley: is something ~ will really like/enjoy
- What’s with you: what’s your problem
- Out with it: speak up, spit it out, tell me, get it off your chest
- The get-go: the beginning, the first momen
- tI can’t take it: I can’t endure/tolerate/stomach it
- Entitled to ~: have a right to SMT. Only citizens of a country are entitled to vote. Some people believe they are entitled to free health careand higher education. 
- Policy: rule



## 08/13/2019 Tuesday 

### LME Magazine

Read a good book.

Are you reading something right now? What is it? Please send a picture of you and the book you're reading. And give us a brief description, too.

Me? NOTHING!

Actually, I have SEVERAL books on my nightstand. But they're not getting read. I need to read them!

But **I'm in a rut.** A few years ago I was reading at least one book a week. But not now... In fact, I'll be lucky to finish five books this year.

BUT I know that this is a temporary problem. I'll be back into books soon.

And it's important. Especially reading non-fiction books. Do you know why?

Books actually make YOU a more interesting person. **Books are VERY effective at teaching us how to think differently. And they add so much color to our minds**. Of course, the wider variety of books you read, the more colorful your mind becomes. And the more colorful your mind, the more interesting you become. Ugh...I need some color! But first, let's enjoy this newsletter!

- Luciano. Hi Coach Share! I'm going to complain about the weather…

 

I really wish to have real winters in São Paulo (Brazil). We are on a plateau around 600 to 800 meters above sea level, so our weather isn't as tropical and warm as it could be, but it is still not cold enough in the winter as I wish.

Despite that, I love to have Chimarrão in the winter. It's a hot drink made of Mate herb, it's my caffeine fix and a substitution to coffee. Chimarrão is one of the names we have for drinks made of Mate herb, there’re others.  

This is an ancient herb that was consumed by **indigenous people** thousands of years ago in southern South America (**yeah, not the whole of South America**). Among others, the notorious Indigenous people known were the so called Charrua, they lived in a region that is now split between the countries of Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay. The European colonizers **assimilated some of their cultures,** like the consumption of Mate herb and the culture of barbecue made on bonfires - *"Churrasco" in Portuguese (Brazil) or "Asado" in Spanish (Argentina and Uruguay).*

Dear Coach Shane, I wish to know if you have already considered using your voice and pronunciation skills in audiobooks. I'd love to listen to audiobooks narrated by you.

Hi Luciano!  Wow. The pictures are PERFECT and the story you gave us is really excellent. YOU are a great storyteller! And I'm very happy that my voice is NOT annoying!! It's funny you ask about audiobooks...I really do want to do one. BUT...for children! Maybe one day. And I'll for sure let you have it for free, Luciano!

- Graziella

I spent my vacation in Russia this year. It was really something. My husband and I visited Moscow and Saint Petersburg.  These cities are totally different, beautiful and fascinating at the same time. 
The only way to communicate with  Russian people was with the English language and thanks to you I was able to speak with them. American English works everywhere.

Saint Basil's Cathedral is a church in *Red Square in Moscow, Russia* and is one of the most recognizable symbols of the country. The Moscow subway. Famous for its elegant and ample stations, the Moscow subway is among the cleanest and most efficient in the world. **Opened in 1935, the system has 13 underground lines and 206 stations that crisscross the city,** many of them decorated with **frescoes, marble columns and ornate chandeliers**.

**Matryoshka dolls** also known as Babushka Dolls. 

The Neva is a river in  Saint Petersburg. The city's traditional nicknames among Russians are the *Window to the West* and the *Window to Europe*.

Tsarskoye Selo is a town which has a former Russian residence of the imperial family and visiting nobility, located 24 kilometers (15 mi) south from the center of Saint Petersburg.  

Hi Graziella! What a FANTASTIC holiday. Again, the pictures are SUPER. You visited places I would also LOVE to see. What about food? Did you guys take any tours? Were the tours in English? I'm super proud of you! Oh, whose English is better--you or your hubby's?!! See you in class, Graziella^^

- Husan. Hi Coach Shane!

Below you'll see the theater where I used to work here in Valencia. Besides the many operas and concerts, we have a special program too, where we - literally - bring the music to small towns around the Valencian Community.

Literally, because the stage of the opera is built on a truck. It drives from town to town, and we perform a comedy-opera on the back of the truck. 

 The opera is "Bastian und Bastienne", the first opera **composed** by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart when he was only 12 years old. It is sung and spoken in the Valencian language, which is the same as Catalan. 

On the stage I say some words in Valencian and in German. My role is an orchestra on the keyboard with a bad character who yells at everybody, but then I fall in love with the dwarf. 

The "young artists" are young singers who have been selected from 300 people from all over the world. 

Every town we've played, there has been always a big success.  I usually play serious classical music, but sometimes I get the chance to play and act on a stage, like in the pictures...

Palau de les Arts, Opera theater of Valencia.

Truck Opera and the Audience, Open Air.

Mozart rocks! Meanwhile, make up on the bus. Behind the curtain, ready to begin the show...The Orchestra (me) and Bastian (tenor). Bowing. The crew after the performance.

Hi Husan, ENCORE!!! Bravo!!

Those are words that I know are appropriate after enjoying a **magnificent performance!!** The theater is magnificent, but the truck "theater" is outstanding, too! And your role is SO funny!!!

The touring must be exhausting... And the hours cannot be easy, too. I'm guessing your work often ends late at night. After work, does everyone go home or do they go to dinner? When does your day start?

The pictures are so **enticing**...but I know that not only I, but everyone else wants to HEAR THE MUSIC! Does this performance team have a YouTube channel? If so, you must tell us!!

Thank you, Husan! See you in class!!

- Mila

Hi Coach Shane,
First of all, I would like to express my great respect for the important job you and your team do. I adore English, my dream is to speak English fluently. I do my best to improve my skills every day by listening to podcasts. I did try some DDM and PIRF classes last year and they are so helpful. My main struggle is to apply the language, to express myself in a conversation fluently and discuss different things. So, I really need more speaking practice and I would like to try Action English class. Can I join the class? Is it available to join?

It's been a long time. I didn't send any news, but I'm still **keen on** the newsletters from you and the other ESL enthusiasts from nearly **all over the world.** It's been a very busy time of my life. I completed my dissertation. I was exhausted but totally **thrilled with** the results. I earned my science degree. In Russia it's called Candidate of Sciences degree, that requires at least three years of study beyond graduation from a university level higher education institution and the award of the Magistr diploma. I'm not sure, but I heard that it's similar to PhD in US. So, anyway I'm happy! Pictures below are my **magic potion** that always brings me extra power. 

 The formula is 100% deep dark coffee + 97,7% of dark chocolate = 197,7% of magic enlightenment

And then on top of it, a gorgeous and yummy fresh cherry and **apricots.** 

 

Hi Mila, Congratulations on your academic success!! What is next? Will you find a job? Will you teach? What are your plans?  YES! You can email Coach Clive directly and ask him if he has a time slot available for Action English--if you don't know his email address, email us again!

And your Magic Potion looks VERY magical!! Actually, my wife said that she wants to try that combination! But I have a question, do you put the chocolate INTO the coffee? Or eat it separately?

Regardless, the combination of the coffee, fruit and chocolate--truly an **excellent formula for brain AND body health!!** 

 

- **Finally, from Coach Shane...**

**Summer's last hurrah**~ Summer's almost over where I live and we are having our last HOT weather. It's **the last FIGHT of summer**! GOOD!

I was able to have Mikey enjoy the lake A LITTLE. He still hates walking on the sand, though!!!

Next year, I'm sure he'll LOVE the water. I hope~!!

LOL! Mikey is trying to get my Gorilla Mind brain power supplements!!! **Sneaky little devil!** This must be HOW he's becoming a genius at such a young age~!!!

My wife made me homemade LEMONADE! WOW~~~~~~~ So delicious! Thank you, honey! Yes, sure, I'd love another glass. But maybe...tomorrow! Yes, in the country where I live, we drink out of mason jars. We don't need regular glasses!!!

Awww~~~ I know, baby pictures can be REALLY boring. Too bad! I like them!!!



## 08/15/2019 Wednesday

### LME 148

**TO LEARN: IPA (pronunciation) symbols will KILL you!** 

Hi ,

Wednesday’s Wisdom!

**DON’T USE IPA** symbols or **WRITTEN** spellings when you want to master pronunciation!

I’ve said this many times, and I’ll repeat it once again.

**DON’T USE IPA** symbols or **WRITTEN** spellings when you want to master pronunciation!

Why?

Because we have the internet. We have AUDIO files available to everyone! Just click on the SPEAKER icon or better yet, LISTEN and WATCH real English being spoken in real situations!!

If you are a beginner, you need to make an important decision. American English OR British English?

Of course, my recommendation is American English.

Once you decide, then start using American dictionar**IES**. Not just one, but use a few! Different dictionaries, believe it or not, will offer different pronunciations for the same word!

My recommendations are:

Merriam-Webster

Google.com (US version)

Dictionary.com

Check this out. I looked up the word TOWARD in all three of the dictionaries. I want you to look at the pronunciations highlighted in YELLOW. Crazy, right?!! They’re different!!! SO~~~

**DON’T USE IPA** symbols or **WRITTEN** spellings when you want to master pronunciation!

**USE the speaker icons**! Compare the three. Sometimes you’ll hear differences, sometimes you won’t. Then listen to your video or podcast and see how a “real” American pronounced the word.

AND, by the way, SOMETIMES we VARY our pronunciation!!!

For example, sometimes I say OFTEN with no T sound, but sometimes I say it WITH a T sound!!

Ugh~~

How can you learn HOW to really master pronunciation?

Easy—join our classes. Become a member. Join our LIVE classes, become a family member!

But remember ONE thing…

**DON’T USE IPA** symbols or **WRITTEN** spellings when you want to master pronunciation!

A quick recap: **IPA (pronunciation) symbols will KILL you!**

Have a great day! 😊



## 08/19/2019 Monday

### DDM 593

#### VOC

- Coming up: getting older, maturing, coming of age
- Self-esteem: your feeling of confidence and value
- Narcissism:  when  you  feel  you  have  MORE  confidence  and  value  than  other  people!!
- Sense of entitlement: when you believe you DESERVE to HAVE something even though you DID NOTHING to get it
- It’s still on: the show is still being broadcast/made
- Sentiments: feelings, opinions
- Wholeheartedly: 100%, with all my heart
- Value: appreciate
- Lift up: respect, revereIcons: in this case; people who represent X
- Popular media: in the USA; mainstream TV and Hollywood
- Trash: to talk badly/derisively about someone/something
- Revere: to greatly respect someone/something

- Blew up: in this case; suddenly became SUPER popular/viral
- Chapters: groups/clubs/small organizations
- Campus climate: current university culture
-  Shocking: appalling
- Microaggressions:  saying things that offend people;  saying  “stewardess” instead of “flight  attendant”. Doing things that offend people opening doors for women. (I’m not joking)
- Trigger warnings: telling people that WHAT you are about  to  say/talk  about  MIGHT  offend  some  people.  “I  should  give  you  a  trigger  warning  before I read this story to you: at the end of the story, the evil witch dies.” 
- Safe  spaces:  a  place,  often  a  room,  usually  on  a  college campus where people, especially women and minorities, can go and be free from stress because of who they are or how they feel... 
- Playing the ~ card: to use ~ in order to show you are GUILTLESS or that you are a VICTIM
- The left: traditionally in the US, it simply referred to the democrats (liberals). But in the past decade, it more commonly refers to socialists/communists
- Endgame: the final result wanted
- Sensitize: to  make  things  sensitive  OR  to  make  people  react  emotionally  to  something
- It came to me ~: I realized this when ~
- Overly: too (ridiculously so)
- Acting as: acting like
- Downtrodden: oppressed, enslaved, bullied, underprivileged, disadvantaged 
- Pull ~ up by the bootstraps: to improve YOUR situation BY YOURSELF even though it seems like an impossible task...work hard, then work harder! 
- Message: platform, political goal 
- End up: eventually
-  The  general  election:  the  November  elections  in  the  USA  (when  we  have  the  majority of our elections)
- Victimhood-type mentality: the thinking that “I’m a victim”
-  Put forth: encouraged, taught, professed
- Moving up the timeframe: making the DATE earlier that what it was

## 08/20/2019 Tuesday

### DDM 594

#### LTA

if you died, would you want your partner to find a new person? If yes, how soon after your death? 

#### EVC

- crap
- my end of 
- I could sure use
- it hit me
- wide open

#### VOC

- Crap: baloney, nonsense, BS

- Kept up: maintained, honored, fulfilled

- My end of ~: the part that was my responsibility

- Pact: promise, agreement

- I could sure use...: I’m in the mood for ~, I really want ~

- What’s the deal with ~: what’s up with ~

- It hit me: I realized

- Been exposed to ~: been near/in the proximity of/around

- Traces: small amounts

- Certain: particular, specific

- Toxic: poisonous

- Adhesive: glue

- Quirky: weird (but in a good way)

- Wide open: available, not busy

- Mope: If you mope, you feel miserable and do not feel interested in doing anything. 
  <Get on with life and don't sit back and mope>. 

- grief-stricken: If someone is grief-stricken, they are extremely sad about something that has happened. (FORMAL) ...the grief-stricken family... 

- devastated: If you are devastated by something, you are very shocked and upset by it.

- unrestrained: If you describe someone's behaviour as unrestrained, you mean that it is extreme or intense, for example because they are expressing their feelings strongly or loudly.

- jubilation: Jubilation is a feeling of great happiness and pleasure, because of a success

  

  

### Tuesday Magazine


Go to bed smarter than when you woke up.

Everyday it's possible to improve. But in order to improve, you need to do a few things:

1. Realize a weakness
2. Search for a solution.
3. Work on improvement.

That's it. Even if you don't FEEL like you've improved, you have.

**As the old saying goes,** "Rome wasn't built in a day."

I look forward to hearing about your improvements. Send me pictures and talk about what you are doing to improve yourself!

- HI Coach Shane!!

Right now I'm reading Maktub. It's a Paulo Coelho book. It's a series of short stories that make us return to our inner wisdom and make us **ruminate** about our existence and our truth. I really recommend it to those who are in search of themselves.  

THANK YOU FOR YOUR BIG HELP!!!

Hi Lourdes! 

Great recommendation! And a hugely famous author! Thank you, Lourdes!

- Hi Coach Shane,

I'm Brazilian and I really love your classes.

I have worked in a British company for one and a half months... Before that, I didn't speak English... NOTHING!! Now, I still don't speak but I'm trying and listening to your podcasts EVERYDAY!!

 How do you feel knowing that there is a person in the world, in Rio de Janeiro, that listens to you EVERYDAY while crossing  Guanabara Bay (please look on Google, it's the way of going between Rio de Janeiro and Niteroi)?

See below the picture about this route that I do everyday to go to work:

Morever, I'm here to thank you for the classes. I really wish the best for you!!! LETS MASTER ENGLISH!!

Hi Clara! 

I'm SO happy to inspire and coach you in English! It really makes me smile! Although my eyes have not crossed Guanabara Bay...my voice has! WOW!!

- Tamami

Dear Shane,

This is my first time writing for your email newsletter. 

It's really hot and humid in Tokyo nowadays...35 degrees Celsius and the humidity is 70%. When it's sunny outside, the weather will almost killing you...like you can't breathe!

Every day I get a message to my iPhone from the local municipal office warning us that outside sports is prohibited - you will get a heatstroke!

But nevertheless, there are many seasonal enjoyments in the Japanese summer and I  would like to share some with you.

In the morning, I enjoy meeting "morning **glory**" blossoms. They are really pretty and they are popular summer garden flowers in Japan. Purple, pink, blue and red-purple. They are also popular as science education material for first graders. My daughter brought this pot back from school. It's so incredible how one seed develops into such a beautiful flower.

Summer is also the festival season. Big or small, we have summer festivals ("Matsuri") here and there all over Japan. Recently we had a small festival on the 
school grounds. 

Men play Matsuri music with Japanese drums ("Taiko"). Women dance along wearing summer **kimonos ("yukata").** We enjoy eating out- we have shaved ice with syrup,  fried noodles, cider and alcohol for adults.

We have games for children - like pop-a-box game (a surprise what you get) and water yo-yo fishing. I only have a picture of the yo-yo fishing (up above).

To cool down, we use fans. Today we have electrical fans and even air-conditioners, but still, this fan is a traditional part of Japan and it is even made into a candy! I got this cute sweet as a **souvenir** from **Kanazawa** in the western part of Japan. Isn't it cute? But you know, it's just a thin rice cracker (sweet one), and you would instantly finish eating it, with one bite! Many Japanese sweets are like this. They are so delicately decorated and look so cute, but you can eat them in one bite!

During these hot days, you need energy...we call it "stamina". For stamina, I made "gyoza" for dinner. It's a popular dish in Japanese homes. They are  dumplings filled with minced pork and cabbage wrapped in a thin dough. You dip  them in soy sauce and eat them.

For the "stamina", we add GARLIC! Yes, that's the secret! I'm not a good cook, but my family loves these. I made 50 gyozas, but they will finish eating them really quickly! Argh!

Hi Tamami! 

Oh...Japanese food is TO DIE FOR! I really love it. And yes, not only the food, but so many products in Japan are very elegantly decorated AND very small! And the quality is also SO good! Feel free to send a few dozen gyozas to me. If you use express mail, they should arrive STILL warm!!!

- Hello coach Shane,

August is a very important month for me, mybirthday is August 20th, so I celebrate a little (not much)!These pictures were from my birthday in 2018 in my office with my coworkers. I'm a Public Servant, the guy in the red t-shirt is me.! Have a good one .

 Hi **João**, HAPPY BIRTHDAY!!!! I'm guessing, by looking at your picture...you are probably about 34 years old, right?! And your office has a young boy working there, too?!! Just joking^^ Well, my sincere congratulations to you TODAY on your birthday! I hope that you have had a terrific day and that **the rest of your August is equally as wonderful!**!

- Dear Coach Shane,

 Last month I read the book " Cà phê sáng cùng Tony". 

This is a long book and includes a lot of short stories about life experiences.

It can teach you how to improve your life, how to improve bad habits, how to improve success in work, and how to strengthen yourself. 

 Hi Hanh My, 

The book sounds really nice. I guess these types of books are becoming more and more popular. Thanks for sharing.

And I read the rest of your letter about NOT HAVING free time as we get older... Yes, it's true! We realize that TIME is our most valuable asset**. And using your free time for your parents and close friends only--you are doing a great job!**

- Finally, from Coach Shane...

Last days of summer. Still a few hot days here and there, but soon the leaves will start changing colors! I love it!

Texas brisket! I'm a Texan. My wife made a few Texan dishes this week. A beef brisket (above) with mashed potatoes and broccoli. And a beer!

 And the other Texan dish...chili! Maybe I'll include a picture of that heavenly creation next week!

Instead...a cranberry bread & turkey sandwich. These days my wife and I are SO busy...and cooking can be SO time consuming...sometimes we cheat and get something ready-made. Like these sandwiches.

Cheat days are okay~!!

Why are we SO busy? I really can't wait to tell you...

But not yet. HUGE news for my wife and Mikey and me. And it will benefit all of you, too. But not for a while! 

SO I will wait to tell you. But it's BIG and it's SO EXHAUSTING!!!! 

Clingy! My son is REALLY starting to LOVE to hang out with me. He runs up to me and clings on and if I don't pick him up he complains. He follows me like a little puppy dog...and I'm so happy!!! But he makes work kind of difficult. 

That will change in a few months. BIG news!!! 

But that's all I'm telling you. **Stay tuned**. And JOIN us in class, okay?

## 08/24/2019 Friday

### LME 150

**TO LEARN: tie A in with B, tied up, tied down, tying up, tie up**

Where have I been?!! Did I forget about you?!!

No! In fact, I’ve been feeling TERRIBLE because I have been unable to send you email English lessons! Why? I’ll let you know in the near future! Good reasons😊

Today, however, let’s study a few phrasal verbs that use TIE! I’ll try to **tie** my busy schedule **in with** this lesson!

These days I’ve been really **tied up**. Normally I’m **tied down** to my office chair, but for the past week and a half I’ve been driving everywhere to get some special work done. Because I was **tying up** the car, my wife was unable to go to the hairdressers, so she’s now mad at me~ Hopefully I can **tie up** all this extra work by December—then everything will be back to normal!

Can you figure out the meaning of those FIVE different phrasal verbs?!

**Tie A in with B**: to relate A and B, to connect A and B

**Tied up**: BUSY!!!

**Tied down**: forced to stay in one place

**Tying up**: using ALL BY MYSELF, not sharing

**Tie up**: finish perfectly/completely

Mastering Phrasal Verbs is KEY—super important—to your mastery of the English language. The best way to do that—LEARN through examples and then use them. DDM VIP is ideal (perfect) for that! Join us today, start September 2nd!



A quick recap: **tie A in with B, tied up, tied down, tying up, tie up**



## 08/27/2019 Tuesday

### Tuesday Magzine



**Sometimes the only way out is THROUGH.**

Muscle through.

Make it through.

Push through.

Go through.

All phrasal verbs that mean “**When the going gets tough, the tough get going**.” Which means, LIFE has many difficulties, but **successful people work through the difficulties**.

One of the easiest things to do is **avoid discomfort**.

- Discomfort at work or school…it’s easier NOT doing your work early.
- Discomfort with your body…it’s easier NOT exercising or having some ice cream.
- Discomfort with your mind…it’s easier watching TV instead of reading or studying.

Almost all of us are guilty.

**Sometimes the only way out is THROUGH.**

So how do we get OUT of these problems and make it THROUGH to success?

The real problem is, *in my opinion*, NOT the discomfort (discomfort is natural), rather it’s allowing “avoiding discomfort” to become a **habit**. Bad habits will kill you, but…

Good habits are one of the FUNDAMENTAL KEYS to success. You only FORM a habit by consistent action. If you consistently do bad things…you will have problems! You have to find the good things and then do them **every day**.

- DOING the work before it’s due. Keep ahead of everything.
- EXERCISING when you are tired and have no time. SKIPPING the ice cream.
- TURNING OFF the TV and studying.

Hi, Coach Shane!

I’m Ariane Akemi, from Brazil. I have been following your podcast since the beginning of this year on Spotify, and I gotta say: You’re the best! I have improved a lot since I started listening to your Daily Easy English Expressions. Sometimes I catch myself quoting you and your funny voices. In my free time, I like to watch shows on Netflix, listen to music, study English, drink beer and hang out with my friends and boyfriend. Whenever I have vacation, I love to travel as well. I've been to France, Germany, Croatia, Italy, Curaçao, Peru, Chile... And this year, something really special has happened. In June, my boyfriend and I went to Canada. It was our first time traveling to a native English-speaking country. Can you imagine how wonderful it was? I'm so in love with the English Language that I didn't want to come back to Brazil. We attended an exchange program for a month in Vancouver, so during the week we were studying English with people from all over the world, and on the weekends, we would **sight-see** in different cities near Vancouver. By the way, on one of the weekends, we went to San Francisco, California, and it was just amazing! We met lovely people both in Canada and in the U.S. Maybe next time that we go to the U.S. we can meet you. XD 

Kind regards!

Ari

Hi Ari! 

 Canada REALLY is a beautiful country! I've been all around the USA, but I cannot deny Canada's unique beauty! And the people are really nice. And the beer (Chambly) is REALLY excellent! I'm so glad you had a great time AND that you got to visit San Francisco, too! And I'm really happy that you are enjoying my podcast! In 2020, I will be producing a LOT more content! This year, it's TEXT, next year audio/video!

Thank you so much for sharing!

- Nour-Eddine

Hi Shane

We really enjoyed our trip to the northeastern United States and I’m very happy to share our impressions of our journey. This week, I'll tell you about our crossing of Minnesota

We head south to St. Paul, Minnesota. The weather changes after passing Duluth. It’s sunny and the temperature’s in the seventies.

Our first visit is St. Paul Cathedral.

 St. Paul’s Cathedral reminds us of the Sacré-Cœur Basilica in Paris.

St. Paul’s sister city, Minneapolis is a nice and quiet city. A must-see is the kaleidoscopic mural showing Bob Dylan during three stages of his life.

The magnificent Bob Dylan mural

Then we had a rest at Nicollet Mall.

Before leaving the Twin Cities, we bought toys for our grandsons at Mall of America. It’s a huge shopping center. The Mall of America is the largest shopping mall in total area and largest in total store vendors in the United States.

We leave the Twin Cities and are still heading south along the Mississippi River.  The US 61 highway offers **stunning views** of this **majestic** river. We drive through towns with nice names like Red Wing, Diamond Bluff, Wabasha ... We stop in Kellogg. All the PIRF VIP students do know there is the fantastic **carousel** and toy museum at Lark Toys in Kellogg.

On the seventh of June we arrived in French Island, Wisconsin. We’ll spend a few days there exploring the Mississippi River.

Hi Nour-Eddine! 

OH!!! LARK TOYS!!! I'm SO happy that you and your wife were able to visit there. Wasn't it lovely? I hope you liked it. The pictures are great--but PLEASE send the pictures next time, not a pdf!!!

I didn't tell you, Nour-Eddine, but as a child I spent EVERY summer in Wabasha! Our extended family rented cabins on the Mississippi for several days of fishing and fun!! I remember some of those days as though they were yesterday! Did your grandsons like their Mall of America toys?! What an exciting adventure! I hope I get to do the same thing in France one day!! See you in class, Nour-Eddine and my best wishes to your wife!

- Gulya

Hi Coach Shane


You know every year I look forward to summer in Moscow because of the sunny warm days, kids are on holidays and you can spend a lot of time outdoors and what's important is BEING TOGETHER/HAVING FUN/RELAXING with your family.

I love this time!

This summer we visited: theaters, museums (art, paleo, zoological, toys), Tretyakov gallery (new building- expose the art of XX-XXI centuries).

We spent a lot of time walking in the parks, in the heart of Moscow, we went on boat in Moscow river. We had fun in the Burger's and Firework's Festivals
And of course- zoo (I am sending you some of bears- I know you love them), contact zoo, **oceanarium**, rope park, **trampoline** center- kids love all this stuff.

I would like to share with you with some links, maybe someone will find them interesting:

1) Virtual tour to the Art museum named by Pushkin


2) Tretyakov gallery (main collection, before XX century)

3) And the video record of the International Festival of Fireworks 2019

The video is 2 hours long and I put the time of the firework's shows to help you out.
Russia- at 24:54
Argentina- at 45:42
Spain- at 01:13:50
France- at 01:36:57

It was amazing! Eight countries (Canada, Italy, Spain, Argentina, Portugal, Pakistan, France, Russia) participated. Thank you Coach Shane,

Take care

Gulya&Alex

Have you ever played UNO under the Kremlin's wall

Hi Gulya and Alex,  

Oh, what EXCELLENT photos and such a busy summer! I can see your family is thoroughly enjoying it, too! And we've all seen pictures of the Kremlin, but your pictures really are special. **They really put it there**! Wonderful! And the links are really nice, too. I thought the fireworks video might get a little boring...but NO! It was really amazing! Very exciting! It was like a ballet--great music and great FIRE dancers!

We're looking forward to part two!

BY THE WAY, everyone! 

Coach Gulya is HOSTING a FREE  Webinar this Saturday for DDM RUSSIA. (Anyone can join, but it's especially for Russian-speaking students)! She'll be hosting a LIVE Webinar to answer any questions you have about DDM. It's FREE! It's at 10am Los Angeles time. And if you have any questions, you can email [Coach Gulya](mailto:coachgulya@letsmasterenglish.com?subject=Webinar question!&body=I'm interested!) for more information. 

**Finally, from Coach Shane...**

 " As above, so below!"

Monthly trip to COSTCO! We bought some household necessities (cheese, crackers, soap, yogurt!) And I got my reward...a beef hot dog! I can't wait until Mikey is older--he'll be able to eat with me. My wife will NOT eat hot dogs~ Boring!

Two **lumberjacks** doing **daily chores.** I'm training Mikey on how to vacuum. He's really good at getting the floor messy, but not so good at vacuuming. Yet. I have a few more years to train him. I'm a good trainer!!

**Oohlala**!! Homemade LASAGNA! Damn delicious. I'm sure your wife/mom is a good cook, but I can say FOR SURE, I have married the best cook in the world!

September is starting SOON. It's a great time to join. I'll have a few special offers this week. Today I'll give you guys a 48-hour link. 

 

## 08/28/2019 Wednesday

### DDM 595

#### LTA

Have you ever attended a multi-day festival? What’s a popular festival near you?

#### EVC

- ~ enthusiast     
-  taking over     
-  fearing     
-  a handful of      
- a gold mine 

#### VOC

- ~ enthusiast: a person who really likes/follows/enjoys ~
- Invading: flocking to
- County: local governed area BELOW the state level. Wisconsin is a state and it has 72 counties.
- Commissioner: in this case; the appointed lead official of the county
- Emergency declaration: a government’s official statement that says “We have an emergency.” By saying that, they are able to apply certain laws and used certain resources that are normally not available.
- Planned: announced 
- Trespass: enter unlawfully on someone's property
- Raid: attack
- Expo: An expo is a large event where goods, especially industrial goods, are displayed. 
  ...the 1995 Queensland Computer Expo. 
  N-COUNT: usu with supp, oft in names also Expo 
  = exposition
- personnel: a body of persons usually employed (as in a factory, office, or organization) b personnel plural : PERSONS 
- roadblocks: any condition that makes it difficult to make progress or to achieve an objective
- The details: all the information
- Cover: report on
- Show up: arrive
- Taking over: conquering, taking control of 
- Allegedly: supposedly, rumored to 
- Permits: legal authorization
- Fearing: worried that
- Go up in flames: start on fire
- A handful of: just a few
- Fear a ~ nightmare: worry about a very terrible/chaotic situation
- A gold mine: an opportunity to make a lot of money
- Get turned back: refused/denied entry 
- Taking a crap: going #2 (pooping)
- Setting: starting
- Hearing: public (usually) meeting where people can voice their opinions on matters concerning an issue

Alien enthusiasts invading Nevada. Some county commissioners voting to pre-sign an emergency **declaration** ahead of a planned raid on Area 51. Fox News’ William La  Jeunesse  is  live  in  Los  Angeles  with  the  details.  William,  if  this  happens, I just want you to know I’m the one who’s going to cover it, not you. I’m going. 

I know you got your sleeping bag and you got 30 days. I do. I’m ready. Okay. Okay, well, here’s what we don’t know is how many people are gonna show up other than you. But if you’re a public official, you can’t do nothing. That is why both counties  around  Area  51  signed  emergency  declarations  yesterday  and  Monday as potentially 5, 10, maybe 50 thousand or more show up with the intent of taking over a top-secret air force base where the government **allegedly** hides aliens and UFO secrets. 

Storm Area 51started as a Facebook joke, but area residents aren’t laughing. They say this is a non-drug...no drugs, no alcohol. Who’re you trying to kid?

One county approved permits for a three-day concert and expo. But a neighboring county turned down a permit for a similar festival there fearing it could not handle the crowd.

I’m  also  concerned  about,  “Oh, gee  uh,  no  smoking out here?  Oh,  I’m sorry. I didn’t mean for that whole area to go up in flames.” 

The Air Force  isn’t  too  happy  either.  Promising  to  **protect  their  facility  from  trespassing with roadblocks and personnel.** But the area has only one highway, a handful of gas stations and a few restaurants—officials **fear a traffic, cell phone, sanitation and public safety nightmare.** But the entrepreneurs see **a gold mine with thousands** of people with nowhere to go, nothing to eat. They argue giving them permits for concert locations at least gives people a place to go when they **get turned back at the roadblocks** leading to Area 51.



## 08/30/2019 Friday

#### LME 154

TO LEARN: Phrasal Verb Friday with CLEAN**

Hi ,

This week let's study some phrasal verbs starting with CLEAN!

- Before we start, don’t forget Coach Gulya’s free DDM RUSSIA webinar tomorrow! 
- And down below we have a special discount ending Sept 2nd for DDM & PIRF VIP!

Phrasal Verb FRIDAY with CLEAN—I have six of them for you and I’ll bet you can guess their meanings just by reading these sentences:

I went to Las Vegas and really **cleaned up**, but the guy I went with got **cleaned out**.

John finally **cleaned up** after getting arrested with drugs.

I might look rough now, but I **clean up** nicely!

You’d better **clean up** your room before mom comes home.

They had a sale on beer, and I **cleaned out** the place!

With those sentences, can you guess what each phrasal verb means? I’ll bet you can! I’ll rewrite the sentences:

I went to Las Vegas and really MADE/WON A LOT OF MONEY, but the guy I went with LOST ALL HIS MONEY.

John finally GOT OFF DRUGS/ALCOHOL **and/or** STOPPED BEING A LAWBREAKER/SINNER/DELINQUENT after getting arrested with drugs.

- sinner: (formal) a person who has committed a SIN or SINS (= broken God's law) 

- delinquent:  Someone, usually a young person, who is delinquent repeatedly commits minor crimes. 

I might look rough now, but I LOOK GOOD AFTER I SHOWER/SHAVE/GET A HAIRCUT/DRESS NICELY.

You’d better THOROUGHLY CLEAN/ORGANIZE your room before mom comes home.

They had a sale on beer, and I BOUGHT EVERYTHING THEY HAD!

So those two phrasal verbs (clean up/clean out) have six (actually 7) VERY COMMON usages. Now that you see how they’re used, start listening carefully and you’ll hear them a lot in daily English. AND start using them yourself so YOU can master English!

One of the fastest methods to do that…join DDM VIP! We start fresh on Monday, September 2nd. And if you join DDM VIP and PIRF VIP now until September 2nd, I’ll give you an amazing discount of 25%. This link expires on September 2nd so hurry!

 