# July 2019

[TOC]



## 07/01/2019 Monday

### LME 120

**TO LEARN: right around the corner, Little League, anniversary, a federal holiday, gets the day off, sparklers, bottle rockets, firecrackers, display**

Americana Monday!

Independence Day is **right around the corner** *(coming very soon)*—it’s this Thursday! Independence Day is considered the USA’s birthday! And this Thursday will be our 243rd birthday!

Wow…that suddenly makes me feel really old because I remember when it was America’s 200th birthday~ I was in **Little League***(baseball for very young boys)* and we played a special 4th of July tournament~!!

- tournament: a sporting competition in which contestants play a series of games to decide the winner

July 4th, 1776 is the **anniversary** *(birthday)* of our Declaration of Independence from England—when we told the King of England that we were INDEPENDENT! It’s **a federal holiday** *(a US government holiday)* and almost everyone **gets the day off** *(doesn’t have to work)*! This year, it’s on a Thursday so MILLIONS of people will take Thursday AND Friday AND the weekend off! That means MILLIONS of people will be traveling during the holiday to enjoy some summer weather!

Fireworks are a BIG thing during the 4th. Each state has different laws about fireworks. Things like **sparklers** *(first picture)* are legal in every state, but **bottle rockets** *(second picture)* and **firecrackers***(third picture)* are illegal in many states. I don’t buy any fireworks, but when Mikey is older I will!

Of course, public fireworks are the best. Most towns and cities have a large **display** *(showing)*. The best displays are over the water. If you have a boat, you are guaranteed a terrific view of the fireworks.

Camping, barbecues, parades, fireworks and swimming are MUST DOs during this summer holiday. And, personally, it’s also a really good time for Americans to think about “what it means to be an American”.

Does your country have an Independence Day? When is it AND send us pictures of how you celebrate it!

A quick recap: **right around the corner, Little League, anniversary, a federal holiday, gets the day off, sparklers, bottle rockets, firecrackers, display**

That’s it for today, have a SUPER 2nd half of 2019!



### DDM 582 

https://app.box.com/folder/80832964005?utm_source=trans&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=collab%2Bauto%20accept%20user

DDM 582 will kick off July! I hope your month goes great. I know a lot of you will be planning vacations this month and next. Please send pictures if you can! Our new assignment is only FOUR sections, but they are going to be TOUGH. Do your best. Answers tomorrow. And this week I will be hosting LIVE classes so if you have time, join me! CS

#### LTA

It’s summer (for must of us!)! What’s your favorite kind of ice cream?

#### EVC

Articulates: As a speaker, will you be able to articulate your points properly in front of your audience? 

incoherent: His behavior is so incoherent when dealing with different people:  flashes an ingratiating smile to his boss every time when he walks by, but never says a "Hi" to those interns in the same office. 

I swear...He swears to finish this project by the end of this month

confide in~ I confide in your ability to complete this task.

open up to ~It's too easy fo her to open up to a man looks like him. That's why she has been cheated. 



#### VOC

- Funny: strange
- Comes along: enters your life (by chance)
- Articulates: says something very clearly
- Incoherent: the opposite of articulates!
- Hold on: wait a second
- Put him on: let me talk to him (on the phone) 
- My affairs: my business 
- Screw ~ up: ruin
- I swear...: I promise... 
- Turn on: use, utilize
- So-called: supposed, something that only you say
- Charm: charisma, sweet personality
- Confide in ~: tell someone your “secret/personal” problems/concerns
- Open up to ~: tell someone your feelings/secrets/thoughts







## 07/02/2019 Tuesday

### LME 121 Magazine

Sometimes strangers are kinder  than your own family and friends.

And sometimes we're kinder to strangers than we are to our own family and friends.


That's the way we are. Most of us. But I know we all agree: We should be nicest to our friends and family!

The reason is...comfort.

We feel comfortable around family and friends. Our minds relax. We are...natural. And that's a nice thing.

BUT...

Don't allow "natural" to become "complacent".

Complacency means that we have become comfortable--too comfortable--and we lose that desire to improve anything. Everything is "good" or at least "good enough".

Complacency is NOT a good thing.

Are you complacent anywhere in your life? Get out of that comfort zone and find a way to make yourself uncomfortable. That will force you to make improvement!

Start with your family and friends. Say something nice. Do something nice. Make sure they know that they really are your number one priority!

Let's check out OUR family's pictures...

Hi Shane 

Here are my answers!

I am having my dinner on my holiday and 

I didn't bring my laptop 

so I write the answers on napkin and then took a picture with my phone!! 

Have a good day.

 

I love it!! DDM on a napkin! On vacation! In such a beautiful place!! The dinner table looks fantastic with such a wonderful view!

What was for dinner? What did you do on vacation?

37°C/98°F in the sun is a very perfect time for selling lemonade!


In the picture: my daughter and her friend at their lemonade stand with one of their customers.

Your daughter is an entrepreneur! I wish I could run over there and buy a big glass of lemonade. BUT IT'S TOO HOT!! I heard, however, that this week in Europe it's much cooler. Is that true? 

 What will your daughter do with her riches? Save it? Spend it? Reinvest it? Tell me!!

Hi Shane. Monday, May 20th. 
Another week, another state. We leave Cape Cod, Massachusetts and head west towards Upstate New York. No more ocean nor beaches, but we are discovering beautiful, wooded areas.

Our first stop is Troy, NY. It’s a pretty little town near the state capital of New York which is Albany.  Cohoes Falls in Troy, NY. Governor Nelson A. Rockefeller Empire State Plaza, Albany NY.

 Second stop: Buffalo NY and Niagara Falls.

The weather was against us. We took two big showers: the water from the falls and the water from a heavy rain. This is the final result: soaked to the skin!

Let’s go to an area more welcoming and very peaceful: Ohio. We can see that America is a land of contrasts.


Below: the countryside in Ohi

We are ending our week in Cleveland. A very nice city.


I hope that you enjoy this travel report as much as we enjoyed our trip in the US.  Have a good day.  Nour-Eddine

Hi Nour-Eddine,

It looks like you and your wife are having more and more and more fun as the trip continues!! And your descriptions are so wonderful--I think by being in the USA that your English is improving!! 

I can't wait to talk to you in DDM VIP this week and ask you questions--Which state was your favorite? Did you find a food you especially liked? Did you have any problems? What did your wife like the most? Will you come back again?

Last Sunday we were in the Festival of Dances- Global Ballet Holidays.

My middle daughter is a fan of ballerinas,

so we couldn't miss it) Take care. Gulya

Hi Gulya, Such a classical little girl! Already a fan of ballet and ballerinas? I love it! If she wants to become a dancer, will you encourage her? What about your other kids? What dreams do they have?! How exciting. By having children, we can live life again!!

To the left, a hut.

 Some tomatoes, potatoes, strawberries, onions, dill, cucumbers, a gooseberry bush, Estragon weed...

 You can see the guard dog and trashburner. Also to the right is my shed and root cellar.

 The greenhouse belongs to a neighbor!

Below:

Homemade strawberry jam which is delicious! Tutsan and linden flowers for tea...acid-free tea which is really harmless after a meal!

Hi Alex, Oh my god... Your garden looks tremendous! The entire layout is so organized and lush!! What is the guard dog protecting the garden from? Rabbits? They can be pesky little creatures! SO MUCH JAM!! How long will that last? Do you share with your neighbors? Do you sell any at the market? Barter? And homemade tea... You are living the perfect life!!!

Beer! How embarrassing after looking at Alex's garden. I'm at a Walmart getting beer and oranges. And a shirt for Mikey~

Eating lots of fast food these days...hot dogs, McDonald's, Taco John's, Subway sandwiches, Chick-fil-A...you name it! This is JUST TERRIBLE.

 To be honest, though, I've been on the road SO much. I haven't been able to enjoy my wife's cooking. I went house-hunting out east. I went to a military base to get some of my OLD records. I went to a hospital for a special checkup. Over the last 10 days, I've only had 3 days at home.

So won't be too disappointed that I've been neglecting my diet!!!

Skunk brothers... and a deer. 

Those baby skunks CAN SPRAY, but so far they've been very nice. And actually they're really cute. I'm tempted to run out and hug one!! I won't~~

Then a bear! And I'll tell you why he likes our house...our chickens. It looks like he may have gotten one. That's not good. The last thing you want around your house is a bear!

Mosquitoes are no good, too! Mosquitoes are really bad where I live! If you don't protect yourself, they'll be on you in a second! You MUST NOT be complacent where I live. All be vigilant. Never be comfortable. Always be ready to move and conquer!!

 The same goes for your English, right?!

- vigilant:  carefully observant or attentive; on the lookout for possible danger



## 07/03/2019 Wednesday

### LME 121

**TO LEARN: Which course should I take? Goals, Time, Money**

Which class should I take?

I get this question a LOT and I’ve answered it a few times. But let’s cover it again.

We have four different COURSES.

1. **DDM** (Daily Dictation Members) for improving your listening and comprehension skills
2. **PIRF** (Pronunciation, Intonation, Rhythm, Flow) for learning how to speak like an American
3. **AE** (Action English) for advanced students who need to master speaking “naturally”.
4. **LME WEEKLY**—a combination of DDM and PIRF.

**What is YOUR goal?** That’s the first thing you need to answer.

Some students **don’t really have a specific goal**—they just want to improve. In that case, I definitely recommend DDM.

Some students feel that they are **beginners**—in that case I would recommend LME WEEKLY.

Some students are **frustrated with their speaking**—they can never remember the right words, they say UHHH too much—in that case I would recommend DDM VIP, PIRF VIP and AE.

Some students want to **“clean up” their pronunciation** and they want to **sound like an American**—absolutely take PIRF!

**Our classes are NOT for “beginners”.** But if you can read an email like this and understand 80%+ without a dictionary, then you are definitely ready to start with us.

**You will NOT master a language in 2 months.** Not in 6 months. It takes a long time. You will improve a lot…then a little…then nothing…then improve a little…then a lot… **That’s the cycle of learning.** But while you study, don’t you want to ENJOY studying?

I made my COURSES as **fun** **😊** as possible so students don’t get **bored** ☹! Every lesson is different—and we have almost 800 lessons!!!! Right now I’m working on DDM 583 and PIRF 214! That’s 797 lessons! WOW!

**Do you have time?**

If yes, **get VIP** classes. VIP classes offer a lot of bonus lessons and a HUGE number of LIVE classes.

**Are you super busy?**

**Get WEEKLY** classes. They offer one lesson every week and a several LIVE classes you can join, too.

**If you don’t have much money?** Definitely **join our WEEKLY**classes. They are very inexpensive, and the lessons are **TOP NOTCH!**

That’s it for today, have a SUPER 4th of July! 



## 07/04/2019 Thursday

### LME 121

Hi ,

*I’m a DAY behind! I know—I’ll catch up!! Phrasal Verb Friday tomorrow (on Saturday!!).*

I am NOT a grammar teacher. But when I coach my students, sometimes I have to become one. Ugh…it’s no fun!!

But I try.

So, we had a great question about these two patterns:

- He could not have…NEVER HAD

**Versus:**

He could not have **had**…he HAD—and it was the **best**! 

- I should not have…I should NEVER HAVE

**Versus:**

I should not have **had**…I **HAD**—but I shouldn’t have!

- I would not have…I would NEVER HAVE

**Versus:**

I would not have **had**…I DID HAVE—I was **lucky**!

- I might not have…I probably will NEVER HAVE

**Versus:**

I might not have **had**…I DID HAVE—I was **lucky**!

 

**So, looking at those sentences again:**

He could not have had success. -->  He did have success and it was amazing and only those circumstances allowed him to have success.**😊**

He could not have success. -->  He tried but was never successful.**☹**

I should not have had that extra piece of cake. -->  I ate TOO MUCH cake!! I’m happy but fat!! **😊**

I should not have that extra piece of cake. -->  I will stop now—I do not want to eat too much cake. I’m skinny but still hungry **☹**

I would not have had a son. -->  I was lucky and had a son! I’m happy! **😊**

I would not have a son. -->  Although I wanted a son, I never had one~**☹**

I might not have had success. -->  Thanks to that situation, I DID have success! **😊**

I might not have success. -->  I probably will not have success ~**☹**

NOW...you need to make your own sentences. Without practice, you'll never learn. If you're in my AMA class tomorrow, let's practice together!

Grammar is a **PAIN IN THE ASS**! But…it’s a necessary evil. To communicate effectively, we DO need to know how to use it. And by studying with us, you can learn HOW to use grammar EFFECTIVELY. And you get to learn with me, which means it’s fun and easy! JOIN US!

A quick recap: **could not have** **VS** **could not have had**

 

## 07/05/2019 Friday

### LME 123

**TO LEARN: called upon**

When I was about 15 years old, I was **called upon** *(formally requested—asked to do something)* by my family to volunteer for military service. I came from a family of freedom fighters. My early American ancestors fought in the Revolutionary War, they fought for the Union Army *(the North—anti-slavery)* in the Civil War, they fought in World War I, my grandfather fought in World War II *(the Battle of the Bulge)* and my father was a combat medic during the Vietnam War. So, I felt that I had to volunteer for the Army.

When I joined, there were no conflicts *(wars)*—that was good. And after serving for a few years, the Army would help pay for my college education—that was great!

But towards the end of my military career, a problem erupted in the Middle East. Fortunately, I was not **called upon** to serve in battle. But my friend was. My high school friend Brian Scott. He was a great guy—very funny and very kind. He lost his life in Iraq in 1991. There's a story about him—if you click the picture below, you can read it. They talk about Brian at the end of the story.

Amazingly, before he was killed, he called MY MILITARY UNIT! I worked in communications, and part of my job was connecting combat soldiers to their family members so that they could say “Hi!”

My job was taking the soldier’s battlefield radio calls and connecting them to US telephone lines. I worked 15 hour shifts three days a week. I worked Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. Brian called on a Tuesday—I just missed his call!

Less than one month later, Brian was killed.

He died before meeting his new baby boy.

I went to Brian’s funeral and it was one of the saddest days of my life. It still brings tears to my eyes. If you have ever seen a military funeral… You’d never forget it. So much sadness and so much honor.

I hope you are NEVER **called upon** to serve your country in battle. Your sons and daughters, too. It’s much better to serve your country in other ways.

Maybe you’ll be **called upon** to educate youth, to assist the elderly, to feed the homeless, to serve in your religious community. Maybe you’ll simply be **called upon** to raise a wonderful, loving, strong family.

The other day was July 4th. The USA’s birthday. The USA, in my opinion, stands for freedom. We have made a lot of mistakes, but the average American really believes in freedom. And we want freedom. Not just for us, but for everyone around the world, too.

I want to thank everyone who believes in freedom. All around the world. And a HUGE thank you to all the brave men and women who have fought for freedom. Especially to those who have died for freedom. All around the world.

Sorry for the heavy letter! I felt “**called upon**” to write a tribute to my friend Brian Scott on America’s birthday.

A quick recap: **called upon**

My best to you! 😊

### DDM 583



#### EVC

- so-called
- following
- offensive
- meant for
- reached out to

#### LTA

When you see your country’s flag, what do you think of?



#### VOC

- Facing: dealing with
- Major: a lot of
- Backlash: a STRONG negative reaction to something you do
- So-called: as it called, as it is known as, as you/they call it
- Perceived link: supposed connection
- Era: period
- Yanking: pulling, removing
- Following: after
- Appeal: a strong request
- Launch: start selling
- Intervened: got in the middle
- Reportedly: supposedly
- Execs: executives
- Featuring: highlighting
- Offensive: something that hurts/angers/humiliates someone
- Taking on: challenging
- Critical: against
- Pulling: removing
- Roughly: approximately
- Incentives: things that encourage/motivate someone to do something
- Meant for SMO: were supposed to go to SMO
- Plant: factory
- Halt: stop
- Distribution: sales
- Concerns: worries
- Detract: take away from
- Went with: decided to use
- Clean: sharp, nice
- Reached out to: called, contacted

## 07/08/2019 Monday

### LME 124

**TO LEARN: swing for the fences, struck out looking, struck out swinging, on deck, ground balls, knock it out of the park**

Americana Monday. IF you ever visit the USA in the late spring, summer, early fall; I highly recommend that you attend a professional baseball game! Even if you don’t know the rules, it can be fun! Especially if the weather is nice.

The food is great. Hot dogs and beer are what I recommend. The perfect baseball combination!!

The music is great! The fans know all the songs and the cheering music! And they play the music on a REAL organ LIVE!!

 And if you go in the evening—or as they say “twilight”, the atmosphere is really the best! Especially if the home team wins!

And baseball is such a big part of the United States. We have SO many expressions that come from baseball. Let me teach you a few, okay?

**Swing for the fences**

In baseball: try and hit a home run! Try and hit the baseball OUT of the stadium!

In life: Do your best and try and achieve something really amazing!

If you’re going to study English, swing for the fences. Master it!

**Struck out looking**

In baseball: you were unsuccessful at hitting the ball EVEN THOUGH the pitches were good. You really failed.

In life: you were unable to be successful at something because you were TOO careful or TOO lazy

Wow. You could have had that job at Apple. But you never applied. You only talked about it. Now someone else has that great job. You were struck out looking~

**Struck out swinging**

In baseball: you were unsuccessful BUT you tried your best. Good job—try again next time.

In life: same thing!

Hey, it’s too bad you didn’t get the job with Apple. But at least you tried. At least you struck out swinging. Apple made a mistake by not hiring you. You’ll get an even better job. Go for it!

**On deck**

In baseball: the next person to bat

In life: the next person!

Speaking right now is Coach Arthur and on deck is Coach Shane.

**Ground balls**

In baseball: when you hit the ball “safely” and get on base.

In life: when you do something safely…but it’s BORING!

Since Steve Jobs died, Apple is just hitting ground balls. They have nice products, but no home runs. They need to knock it out of the park if they want to remain on the best.

**Knock it out of the park**

In baseball: hit a homerun! The BEST hit in baseball.

In life: do something super successfully!

After moving back to the USA, Coach Shane has been knocking them out of the park. He started a business teaching online, he got married, he has a son! And there’s more to come. Hard work is finally paying off for him!

Oh! It’s true and THANK YOU!

There are MANY more baseball-related expressions and I know that I will be teaching more in the future—especially in my DDM and PIRF classes. You should join us!

 

By the way, I want to say a HUGE thank you to Coach Arthur. He has been with the LME team for several years—but his time to move on has come. He has been offered an excellent job and it will require his full attention. Coach Arthur, thank you SO much for being a part of our time and enriching the lives of so many DDM students. You will be missed, Coach. Best of luck to you in the future and I hope our paths will cross one day.

A quick recap: **swing for the fences, struck out looking, struck out swinging, on deck, ground balls, knock it out of the park**



## 07/09/2019 Tuesday

### LME Magazine

So many questions and never enough answers. But THAT is the essence of learning.

Once we stop asking questions, we stop learning.

I teach English. I'm VERY good at English!! But in order to be better, I have LIVE classes with my students. In those classes, they ask me questions about EVERYTHING!!

They ALWAYS make me think and make me study.

QUESTIONS...

Do you want to become a MASTER at something?

The route to becoming a master can be found in the questions that you ask!



Hi Coach Shane,
I wanted to share with you and everyone where I have been and what I’ve been doing.

My job is rehearsing operas on the piano in theaters. I’m an assistant conductor. After several weeks of piano rehearsals, rehearsals with the orchestra follow until the performances.

I love my job and fortunately I get to travel a lot, too.


Recently I went to Mérida, Spain, a small city where Roman buildings are still maintained after 2000 years. It's easy to imagine the sound of the Roman soldiers' footsteps and their armor jangling.

The opera we were producing was Camille Saint-Saëns’ “Samson et Dalila”. For the first week, we rehearsed in Barcelona.

For the second week, we went to Mérida. 
This city was founded before Jesus was born! And the Roman Theater, where we had our performances, was built in the first century! TOUCHING the marble columns and the old stones was just an indescribable sensation! Were the Romans acting? Or their slaves? What kinds of shows did they have? Moreover, how did the audiences react? Was their enthusiasm loud & noisy?

The special thing was that around 350 people were acting on the stage. 80% of them were just regular people who had never seen an opera, and 25% of them were physically or mentally disabled.

The stage director wanted them representing the folks being suppressed by political power and military. With this opera, in two words, he wanted to **acclaim the extinguishing of wars and injustice, and claim for humanity and love.**

We also had excellent opera singers, a choir and orchestra. We ended up having a huge success each performance evening.

I have to say that each night I was deeply touched when I saw “normal and disabled” people giving all their spirit on the stage. This event might be a unique experience for all of them, but for us it was very emotional, too. It brought us back down to Earth.

For me, the best part though, was the participation of the sweet and strong creature, representing **Divinity**. “Duende” enjoyed acting for the audience and loved the applause!

Hi Husan!  

What a fantastic story and beautiful pictures! You did a super job at describing your wonderful adventure and we hope to get more from you, too!

 Just reading the story was touching! Thank you!!



- Hello, Coach Shane. You know that I am now in Egypt. Last month the bridge Long live Egypt opened and I wanted to share some photos with you. I hope you like them.

 The "Long Live Egypt" bridge, built in Cairo, entered the Guinness Book of World Records as the world's largest bridge (67 meters and 36 cm). It includes 6 traffic lanes in each direction. It's (540) meters long and (96) meters above the surface of the water.

 To drive across this bridge costs 20 Egyptian pounds, around U$1.20.

Hi Mahmoud! 

 I LOVE new construction and since you're an architect, I can imagine that you love it even more than me!! But I'm curious--you are already an established architect. Why did you go back to learn more? Are you trying to change specialties?

 And how do you like being back in Egypt? And...are there local stories that describe the origin of the **Pyramids and the Sphinx** differently than what modern science tells us? I'm really curious!!

If I ever go to Egypt, it would be an honor to have you show me around! 

 

Dear Coach Shane,

I am watching your videos. I learn English every day by your email. It helps me improve my English and relax after work

Thank you so much my Coach!

I took photo with a baby sheep, it is so cute -_-, It is also my screen desktop in my office

This is a jar of lavender which I made. My favorite flower is lavender. I make these to sell in my free time. What do you think about it?

I look forward to hearing about your new house. I enclosed 3 pictures of my parent's new house!

Hi Hahn My! 

Great pictures--all of them! That lamb is SUPER cute! The spring and early summer are the best because all the animals have their babies! 

Lavender is very popular and I'll bet your side business of selling those decorations does nicely! Does lavender grow near your home?

And congratulations to your parents on their new home! It looks really nice and it has a great view! We are still hoping to get our own home--our first home--soon! Only time will tell!!

Thanks for the excellent photos!

- Alex
   "Summer Solstice Solo camping & kayaking

   S-cubed camping & kayaking!!

(Inspired by CS)

 A couple or so years ago I was up for a solo camping/ kayaking trip. But year after year I delayed it for one or another stupid reasons. This year the thought occurred to me again. Hmm..time goes only in one way and the clock doesn't stop ticking.

So, I said to myself: 'Come on! What am I waiting for? It's just a little paddling for fun. Seventy kilometers down a river? It's easy!'

Of course, I am not as good as I once was, but I'm still good once as I ever was. I chose the symbolic time, place and weather for that adventure. It was the day of the summer solstice, the paddling launched from Solnzevo town (the name could be interpreted as Sun's) on a hot sunny day. Sun and the letters S are everywhere!

Hi Alex, 

S-cubed is PERFECT! Your adventure looks absolutely wonderful and I'm super impressed--70 kilometers ALL by yourself! 

My question, I have many but my burning question:

You go down the river in one direction 70 kilometers...

HOW do you get home?! 

Was one night enough? Did you fish? What did you eat? Did  you purify water or bring it? Did you have a radio or a smartphone with you? Did you run into any animals? Strange people? Other kayakers? When's your next trip?!!

-  Finally, from Coach Shane...

Starting with a local taco truck... (VERY overpriced and NOT tasty)

Moving on to a cheap hot dog (A buck fifty including the coke with free refills) 

Hit up a different taco place but FORGOT to get salsa~

(Slightly better tasting and much cheaper)

Finally a chicken sandwich from another very popular fast food joint~

(Priced okay but NOT tasty at all) 

Finally, washed down ALL that garbage fast food with homemade lemonade. WOW! It's extra sour and has a real KICK!! I've been on the road SO MUCH the past several weeks... Ugh, give me homemade food ANY DAY OF THE WEEK!!!

Mikey and I were out doing some errands. He's getting heavy, but I cherish these days. I know in a few years, he will NOT want me to pick him up. And in a few more years, I won't be able to pick him up because he'll be too heavy!!!

We had a **vicious** windstorm last night. One of our neighbors lost part of his roof on his pole barn. Nobody was hurt, but it's going to cost him a lot of money to fix his building. He just finished building it last year, too. Mother Nature can be **cruel**!

That's it for this week! Stay happy and healthy and STAY AWAY from junk food!!

And don't forget: Ask QUESTIONS and become a Master, okay?



## 7/10/2019 Wednesday

### LME 126

**TO LEARN: every day, everyday**

 

Hi , Wednesday’s Word Wisdom

In English, there are MANY confusing things, and today let’s focus on something that confuses ESL people like you AND native speakers like me!

- Every day V.S. Everyday

“**every day**” as two words means DAILY or EACH DAY! Every Monday and Tuesday and Wednesday … To help you remember, “every other day” means, for example, Monday and Wednesday and Friday… Use it as an ADVERB!

“**everyday**” as one word means REGULAR. Something you might see/do/read anywhere and everywhere. It’s nothing special! Use it as an ADJECTIVE!

Let’s look at the sentences again. How’d you do? 100%?!

- My **everyday** lunch consists of a sandwich and a glass of milk.
- I eat my lunch **every day** at 12:30.
- He calls me **every day**.
- Answering phone calls is an **everyday** task for me.
- I live in the country, so seeing wild animals is an **everyday** experience. I see them **every day**.

To master little things like these, you need to practice EVERY DAY! And if you are a member of DDM or PIRF or LME WEEKLY, learning stuff like this is an EVERYDAY thing!

**A quick recap: every day, everyday**

### DDM 584

#### LTA

What ’s the best meal to serve guests at a wedding? What did you have at yours?

#### EVC

- touching       
-  tons of        
- breaking in       
- get this        
- hurting

#### VOC

- Handball: very similar to soccer BUT players use their hands!

- Left us: abandoned us, walked out on us

- Touching: a story that makes you feel a lot of sympathy/sadness/empathy, moving 

- Rage: intense anger

- Tons of: lots and lots of

- Covers: blankets 

- Breaking  ~  in:  loosening  ~  up,  wearing/using  something  until  it  becomes  comfortable/usable

- Get  this:  check  this  out,  listen  to  this—and  the  next  “information” should  be  surprising 

- To get back at me: to get revenge 

- Hurting: detracting, taking away from

- Here’s to ~: a phrase we use when celebrating something: Here’s to you! (you are the  reason  for  the  celebration),  Here’s  to  your  birthday!  Here’s  to  your wedding! When we use this expression, we must hold up our glass high and everyone else should do the same.
- To go with: to choose/select/pick



## 07/11/2019 Thursday

### LME 127

**TO LEARN: believe, lover, friend, trust, life**

 

Thursday’s Say Somethings…

Languages are great. And learning how to “play games” with languages and with words is a lot of fun! **IF** you like languages~

I do!

I have an example for you today.

Here are five common words that I am sure you know:

- **Believe**
- **Lover**
- **Friend**
- **Trust**
- **Life**

Easy, right?

Well, here’s the “fun”.

These five words are very meaningful words. But many people use these words “too freely”. Each of these words contains another word which you might want to remember the next time you use them!

- There is always a LIE in **believe**. Be careful of what you believe!
- There is always an OVER in **lover**. If you don’t want your love to be over, work hard.
- There is always an END in **friend**. Like love, cherish your friends and keep them until the end!
- There is always an US in **trust**. If you want a strong relationship, you must have trust between you.
- There is always an IF in **life**. Don’t live your life always saying IF…do more. Enjoy your life more.

It’s just a game!! But sometimes these games are real😊

A quick recap: **believe, lover, friend, trust, life**

That’s it for today. I’ll be back tomorrow for Phrasal Verb Friday!

### DDM 585

#### LTA

Q1: If you’ve ever crossed an international border, which country gave you the “hardest” time? Q2: How are your interpersonal skills?

#### EVC

- Suggesting       
-  demeanor        

People will have their opinions about you according to your DEMEANOR and your communication skills.

- abrupt       

You must be patient even with an abrupt and rude customer

-  the merits of        

The merits of building a new metro line will ease traffic congestion in the city. 

- the lion’s share

The lion's share of the work has been done by my friends.

SUGGESTING, in this case, is NOT the same as RECOMMENDING! It’s the same as IMPLYING.

So, which is more common to say:

​                I’m implying…

Or

​                Are you implying…?

Or

​                He was implying that…

The second two are very common, the first MUCH LESS common!

 

It’s BEST to use a NOUN with “the lion’s share”. For example;

The lion’s share of the work

The lion’s share of home mortgages

#### VOC

- Viral sensations: videos/songs/memes that SUDDENLY become VERY popular online/on the radio/on TV
- Suggesting: implying 
- Have a tendency to...: often DO/ARE
- Found himself on the receiving end: received, got
- A verbal lashing: yelled at
- Go wild: go crazy
- A certain level: a well-defined amount
- Demeanor: conduct, how people act
- Concern: worry
- Allegations: accusations, things people are saying about you (often without proof)
- Abrupt: in this case; curt, short
- Rude: impolite, nasty, mean
- Perception: interpretation, assessment 
- The merits of...: the benefits of
- Interpersonal skills: skills/ability to interact with other people
- Sensitivity: understanding  of  HOW  a  person’s  acting  and  speaking  can  affect  another person and learning about it  SO you do not upset/anger/scare/etc. other people when you interact (communicate) with them
- Interactions: meetings, conversations, encounters
- Comprehend: understand
- Entail: include
- The lion’s share: the majority, most
- In large part: mostly
- Conducting: doing, hosting, teaching

### PIRF

## 07/14/2019 Friday

### LME 128

**TO LEARN: spring SMT on SMO, blown away, bowl over, taken aback, bring SMO down**

TGIF!

Well, today my wife and I (and Mikey, too!) got some really good news. But I can’t tell YOU. Yet!

I need to **spring this on my family**, first. They’re going to be **blown away**! The news will **bowl over** my dad! Some people might be **taken aback**, but I won’t let that **bring me down**

Did you understand that paragraph?! I used five different phrasal verbs, right? Let me rewrite that paragraph with NO phrasal verbs!

I need to tell my family about this surprising information first. They’re going to be super surprised! The news will shock my dad—but it will be a good shock! Some people might be surprised in a negative way, but I won’t let that disappoint me or make me feel depressed.

I’m guessing that the second paragraph is MUCH FRIENDLIER to ESL students! Am I right? But remember, everyone, if you want to MASTER daily English—you need to memorize PHRASAL VERBS!!

Go ahead--go back and forth over those two paragraphs and master those five phrasal verbs. USE them in your own sentences. Say them out loud. Have fun with it!

Join DDM and enjoy mastering English! We have a SPECIAL membership at the very bottom of this email—check it out!

Recap: **spring SMT on SMO, blown away, bowl over, taken aback, bring SMO down**



## 07/15/2019 Monday

### LME 129

**TO LEARN: tons of, prime, runs, just shiny objects**

 

It’s Americana Monday and one thing Americans do **TONS of** *(a very large amount of)* is shopping online. Before and after Christmas used to be the **prime** *(the best, the most important)* season for shopping, but not anymore. Anytime is a good time! Have you ever heard of a little company started by a guy named Jeff Bezos called Amazon?

Amazon sold its FIRST book back on July 16th, 1995. It was a technical book on computers!

And who could have imagined that Amazon would be one of the largest companies in the world today~ And Jeff Bezos still **runs***(operates, manages, is the CEO/president of)* the company! Pretty amazing!

Right now, Amazon is having their huge AMAZON PRIME DAY sale. Millions of Americans are opening up their wallets and buying things. Many of those things are **just shiny objects** *(items that people buy but actually don’t need and/or won’t even use. Maybe use them once!)*! But they make us feel good when we buy them!!!!

Me?

Actually, I did buy something today on Amazon Prime Day! A book for Mikey! I should receive it later this week—I’ll show it to you all! And I’ll probably take a video of me reading it to Mikey. I hope he likes it~ Reading bedtime stories will become a nightly routine for me.

Shopping on Amazon will NOT become a daily or nightly routine!

But what about in your country? Is Amazon there? Are they big? What is your country’s most popular online shopping site? Do you use it? Let me know and take a picture of the last thing you bought!

A quick recap: **tons of, prime, runs, just shiny objects**

### DDM 586

#### LTA 

What would be a deal-breaker in a relationship for you? Smoking?

#### EVC 

- left up to      
- magic marker      
- quite a few      
- psyche myself up      
- a month away

#### VOC

- Left up to ~: the responsibility of A was given to ~

- Flyers: an advertisement usually printed on a single piece of paper 
- Magic marker: a brand of marker pens—now used to mean any brand of marker
- Xerox:  photocopy—again,  the  brand  is  used  as  a  noun  and  a  verb  for  any  photocopy made on any machine! 
- Quite a few: a lot (more than you might expect) 
- Adhesive: sticky
- Pick up ~: buy
- Break it off with ~: cancel the plan/engagement/etc.
- Psyche myself up: mentally prepare and strengthen myself 
- Take it easy: in this case; calm down, relax 
- Simmer down: calm down, go back to normal
- Borough:   district—outside   of   NYC   (in   the   USA), not many cities use this term. NYC has five boroughs
- Wardrobe: all the clothes you wear
- A month away: coming/happening in one month. 
- The    wedding    party:    in    this    case;    the    duty/job/title  of  the  people  helping  the bride and groom—the bridesmaids and the groomsmen
- Usher: one of the groomsmen (usually one of the groomsmen) that guides people to their seats at the wedding and reception 
- Bridesmaid: one of the ladies that assists the bride

### PIRF 71



## 07/16/2019 Tuesday

Students send their recordings to me and THE MOST COMMON thing they say:

I hate the way I sound in English!!

It happens to EVERYONE!

When I was a kid and had my first "tape recorder", I immediately taped myself. And when I played it back, I thought the tape recorder was broken! I played my recording to my mom and asked her if I sound like that. She told me:

One and the same!!

That one (voice on the tape) and me were the same! I couldn't believe it. I HATED the way I sounded...in English!!!

But the truth is--in order to improve, you MUST know what your weaknesses are. And when it comes to English speaking and pronunciation, you ABSOLUTELY should record yourself and listen to yourself! Just like you look at yourself in the mirror before you go out to something important.

We need to KNOW ourselves before we can improve ourselves.

PIRF is a great class for this--if you want to start mastering your English speaking skills!



- Hi Coach Shane,

Saturday, June 29th, my summer trip to Spain started...

I was living for a week in the town Lloret de Mar, Costa Brava. Lloret de Mar is considered a great place for those who are seeking entertainments and fun 24/7.

A voyage on a ship to Tossa de Mar

On Tuesday and on Wednesday, Barcelona met me with its **magnificent** Gothic architecture. **The main tone of the city was set by Antoni Gaudí.**

Casa Milà was the last private residence designed by Gaudí. While **strolling** on the busy streets of Barcelona, you can **stumble** upon this landmark.

Casa Battló is another sight in the center of Barcelona just five minutes from Casa Milà.

Sagrada Familia is a large unfinished Roman Catholic church. It’s been under construction for more than a century. Sagrada Familia is the most impressive and **breathtaking** structure in Barcelona.

Barcelona Cathedral. In Catalan its official name is Catedral de la Santa Creu i Santa Eulalia.  

A **panoramic view** on the Plaça d'Espanya from the hill Montjuïc.

And finally, photos of some delicious food.

Paella with seafood is a traditional Spanish meal...

And “Arròs negre” is similar to paella. The dish's dark color comes from squid ink which also enhances its seafood flavor.

Have a good day. 
Victoria

Love LME,
Victoria. XOXO

 Hi Victoria,

What a fantastic adventure COMPLETE with excellent sites and wonderful foods! Your vacation really looks perfect and I hope that other people follow your pattern exactly for telling their vacation stories!! Excellent job! See you in LIVE classes this weekend!



- Hi Shane; I'm back from Iran after the 2nd part of my son's wedding!

It's been incredible how we were welcomed there. We met relatives and friends, even in the streets, hanging out, we've been so nicely accepted!

Hi Jean Marie,

 WOW! What a handsome couple and what a magnificent feast! You all look so happy--but your son looks VERY tough!

We now have several students in DDM and PIRF from Iran and they are very nice people! I'm so happy you were welcomed there so nicely!

People around the world are nice...it's the **darn** leaders and governments that seem to cause us so many problems which make the people suffer.

I'm **wishing your son and his wife the VERY best in life**. Please have many children and create a wonderful future!!



- Hi, CS! And here I am... In Sardegna.


The journey kicked off not too smoothly: I lost my headphones and dropped my phone in Rome. Then, the airline lost my baggage.

Finally, the Fatum felt pity for me, and I arrived at the resort without any more problems!

I met pink flamingos and a baby lizard on my way) 

The hotel gave me a Newcomer’s Map

And my Sardegna holiday started. Today I explored the nearby beaches and The Torre di Chia

Sardegna is famous for its network of towers

Now I got your ”capiche.”

Before the journey, I had taken some Pimsleur Italian lessons on Audible, so _io capisco un po l'italiano_ 


Love LME, Andrey. XOXO


Hi Andrey,

Yes!! Another perfect description of a summer holiday! Wonderfully done, Andrey! And the pictures are fantastic...but WHERE ARE YOU?

I want to see you in at least one picture, too. Capisce?

And hurry back--we miss you in DDM!!

- Finally, from Coach Shane...

Mikey's first trip to a beach. He wasn't too thrilled. The sand was too hot, the water was too cold. Too many people. And some boy was just staring at him.

Hmm...I'll try again~ 

I took Mikey to a different place. NO people and not much sun. But it was still hot. Mikey **fared** much better. No toe-dipping in the water, but we were able to take some really nice pictures!

I hope Mikey starts liking the water soon. Why? Because I want to take him fishing!! 

I was out **doing lots of chores** and suddenly I was STARVING. I tried a restaurant, but their credit card machine was broke~ So I had to go to the local supermarket to get some food. Sandwiches. Turkey sammies and an orange Crush.

Really good. Not as good as home, but when you are starving, almost ANYTHING tastes perfect!

My garden NEEDS loving attention. I've been SO busy these days. **The weeds are trying to take over my garden.** They're doing a good job. If you have any free time, please come over and help me weed the garden. There's a LOT of work to be done!!!

And don't forget to study with me, too! 



## 07/17/2019 Wednesday

### LME 131

**TO LEARN: bear in mind, crucial, jerks**

Wednesday’s Word of Wisdom!

Confidence is a VERY important thing when it comes to doing anything successfully. And SPEAKING English requires a TON of confidence for many people!

There are two things that you must **bear in mind (keep in mind, remember)** when your goal is to speak in English.



- You have to speak A LOT in order to improve 
- Everyone wants you to improve

To the first point. Speak. A lot. In our DDM and PIRF classes I have **short video and MP3 files for every lesson specifically made so that students listen and repeat. It’s crucial** (extremely important). But ONLY speaking is not enough—you need to get feedback and coaching, too. Ask your friends to help you or join us in class and we will help you. The more you do this, the "easier" it gets...and THAT will give you confidence.

And to the second point. I don’t know ANYONE who wants you to fail at speaking English. I know this from experience. When I lived in Korea, every Korean person I spoke to was very happy that I was doing my best to learn their language. The same with English. When Americans see a person who is really trying to “speak English”, we are ready to listen and help!

Hey! There are always **jerks (an insensitive, obnoxious person—someone very few people like)**—but forget about those people!!


So REMEMBER, we want you to speak! We want to hear what you have to say!! Don’t be embarrassed. Be strong and your confidence will grow😊 


A quick recap: bear in mind, crucial, jerks



## 07/18/2019 Thursday

### LME 132

**TO LEARN: day after day, day-to-day, day by day**

Thursday’s Say Somethings~

There are so many little confusing words and phrases in English! Please share some with me and I might be able to do a lesson in the future for you, okay?

Today I chose three that my DDM students had a little trouble with:

**Day after day**

**Day-to-day**

**Day by day**

One of those phrases means “daily”, another means “gradually” and one means “never-ending”. Do you know which is which?

- I get yelled at **day after day** by my boss. I hate my job. (*never ending!*)
- My English is getting better **day by day**. (*gradually*)
- My **day-to-day** schedule is always changing. (*daily*)

We use these expressions in DDM. **ONLY** by using them can you master them! If you’re still not a member, what’s your excuse?!!

That’s it for today. I’ll be back tomorrow with Phrasal Verb Friday! 

### DDM 587 

#### LTA 

What’s the last fast food restaurant you visited? What’d you have?

#### EVC 

- Remarkable      
- all that’s left      
- where ~ stand      
- frequent
- wrap ~ head around

#### VOC

- Remarkable: stunning, amazing
- In ruins: completely destroyed
- All that’s left: the only thing that remains
- Crews: workers
- Where ~ stand: what is the current situation (a status update) On hold: delayed, paused Fire  marshal:  the  person  who  enforces  fire  regulations  (laws)  and  investigates fires Blast: explosion
- Rattled: shaken, disturbed
- Debris: in this case; wreckage or destroyed things that have been thrown/blown around
- A half-mile: ~800 meters
- Initial: first The  deck:  the  wooden  platform  outside  a  home used for lounging
- Frequent: go to frequently
- Wrap their heads around ~: understand 
- Rubble: broken debris
- Sifting through: going through very carefully

### PIRF 72

 

## 07/22/2019 Monday

### LME 134

**TO LEARN: space race, astronomical, ugh, sigh**

Hi ,

**"That’s one small step for man,**

**one giant leap for mankind."**

Those words were spoken 50 years ago on July 20th, 1969. From the Moon. **Neil Armstrong** became the first human to step foot on the Moon.

The **space race** *(race to see who gets farthest in space)* between the USA and the USSR was **relentless.** Without both countries making **astronomical** *(amazing, out-of-this-world)* advances, we probably would still be looking up at the Moon and wondering.

Competition is the key to **advancement.** Without a sense of urgency, we can easily become **complacent.** We need that **FEAR** to not be **LAZY**!

But WHAT HAPPENED SINCE THEN???

**Ugh** *(exclamatory word used to show feelings like frustration or difficulty)* ~ That, to me, is a huge frustration! If we made it to the Moon, why did we stop going? Why didn’t the USSR continue with their program and get a **cosmonaut** to the Moon? What have they been doing?!

Did they become complacent? Did they discover something scary?! Did they decide the moon was useless? Was it just too expensive? Or risky? Do they really expect to go to Mars next?

**Sigh** *(exclamatory word to show feelings of resignation or tiredness)* ~ I have so many questions! Will I find answers in my lifetime?! What do you think? Do you think SPACE is something we should explore more? Or is it a waste of money?

**A quick recap: space race, astronomical, ugh, sigh**

Have a super week. I’ll be back tomorrow with our Tuesday Magazine! 😊

### DDM 588

#### LTA 

Are your friends got married, did you stop seeing them? 

- My friend 

#### EVC

- I AM SICK OF their gossip about the office affair.
- There is NO ROOM for the additional guest in our party.
- It's OUT OF THE QUESTION to do the job without a computer.
- He is a BIG name in the filed of astronomy. 
- I DON'T LIKE his quirk ONE BIT.  



## 07/23/2019

#### LME Magazine

Do you know what today is?!!!

It's the day! If you said, "I'll do it tomorrow" yesterday, then today is the day you do it!!

DON'T WASTE TIME! DO IT!!!

I have a list of things to do.

After a few weeks, my list gets REALLY big!

Today was the day where I finished MOST of that list! 

I feel great!

Tomorrow I **intend on** finishing that list!

I will feel greater!!

One month later, I will have another long

TO-DO list! 

We will NEVER finish everything we want.

But we need to remember that TODAY is the day when we said "I'll do it tomorrow". Let's do it!!



- Hi Coach Shane,Thank you so much for your videos and classes. I’m so happy that I've progressed a lot! And thanks to Coach Matt, he helped me so much!

   

This weekend we went to Door County, Wisconsin (I know you’re from WI and I’m sure you know it)! Because it's the tourist season, we didn’t book a room in the local area, we had to book a room in Green Bay (one hour from Door County). Here are some pictures of the **stunning** views of Door County, I love it here so much.

My favorite part was the Fish Boil. It was made outdoors, and everyone could watch it.
It was cooked in a **cauldron** with extremely fresh fish and baby potatoes and onions, and after boiling for a while, the chef would shout at the top of his voice: “Boil over!”(It seemed that the chef splashed a cup of gas on the fire, I’m not sure)
And then, BOOM! It was just like an **atomic bomb explosion**, which was the most **spectacular view** I’ve ever seen！

And finally, it was fish, baby potatoes and onions! So fresh and tasty! Words cannot describe how delicious it was!

And a Swedish restaurant attracts people with a couple of goats on their roof
(that one goat looks so funny~∩_∩~).

Next week we'll go to the Washington Island.  I'll send in more pictures!

" 
Love LME,

Jane. XOXO

Hi Jane! 

 What an EXCELLENT vacation in such a beautiful part of the USA. And it's in Wisconsin which is especially great to see! Everyone who visits Door County always talks about how beautiful it is! I'm glad you and your sister had a great time!

And those two restaurants look really great! Oh, I wish I could have tasted that fish! And a restaurant with goats on their roof?!! That's the greatest marketing idea I've ever heard! I will have to visit both places!!

Have a great time on Washington Island and I hope to see you in AMA!!

- Hi Shane, Here is a picture of my daughter. She has just graduated in medicine. Happy moments. This picture was during their celebration.

Here are some pictures of my visit in New York. I went to Saba's but the guys there were not so friendly. No WiFi for clients. But the **calzone** was excellent. From the bathroom, you can see Manhattan.

Hi Sidnei, 

Going on an **adventure** with you must be a WONDERFUL experience!! And I must say, I've NEVER seen Manhattan from the view out of a bathroom window!! What if someone could see you when you were...never mind!!

New York is **FAMOUS for being "unfriendly"**. So your experience at Saba's...sad but typical. FORTUNATELY the calzone was great! I promise, Sidnei, I will also go to Saba's and get a calzone one day. And I recommend ALL DDM students do the same thing. It will be our DDM's **Holy Place**! A place we all must visit if we ever go to NYC!!!

And my most sincere congratulations to you and your daughter! I hope her future career is very rewarding! Great job to the both of you!

- Hello coach,

I came back home from San Antonio yesterday and I also had to work today. Texas' sun was intensively strong and the temperature was crazy hot. But, I still enjoyed my vacation and was also happy to see my son there. I attached some pictures of my vacation.

We visited the historical battle site, the Alamo, the beautiful River Walk, Natural Bridges, Caverns and Sea World.

Sincerely, 

Hyun Joo Shin



Hi Hyunjoo, 

HOW were you able to do SO many exciting things in such a short period of time? And after vacation you immediately go back to work? AND you did your PIRF assignment??

You need a vacation from your vacation!!!

The pictures are fantastic! From the first picture I thought you were in Venice! So I was surprised to find out it was TEXAS!!!!

Like I told you in our AMA hangout--you **have been to more** exciting places than most Americans!

 If anyone needs travel tips, Hyun Joo can probably help you out. A LOT!!! Thanks always, Hyun Joo. Don't get sick, and get some rest when you can!!

- **Finally, from Coach Shane...**

Out walking. Mikey has been VERY **finicky** about his food these days. I'm trying to get him outside and in the sun...HOPING it'll make him want to eat more.

So far, so-so!!!

Is a baker's dozen the magic number? I made some pot stickers...oh, they're delicious! I use a vinegar sauce...yummy! And a baker's dozen is the perfect number to **fill me up**!

We had some overripe bananas so I baked a loaf of banana bread.

It's very common to make banana bread when you have overripe bananas at home.

Try it!~

Again, the hope was to **entice** Mikey. But to **no avail**~ Does anyone have advice on WHAT to feed a finicky 17-month-old baby?

Just another day at work. My desk is actually pretty clean!! Mikey LOVES to sit with me at the desk. Because of this, my single-handed typing skill has greatly improved. 

My little boy likes to watch me do yard work. There's always SO much to do. Inside work, business work, outside work, Mikey work...work, work, work.

Fortunately, in a few years, I will **delegate** work to my son! Maybe I should have another son, too!!

Are you able to delegate any work to anyone? Tell me WHAT and to WHOM!!

 

