# October 2019 

[TOC]

## 10/03/2019 Thursday

### DDM 602 BLT VS. PLT

#### LTA 

Is this (Beacon, lettuce , tomato vs. Plant, lettuce, tomato) a topic in your country? What are your thoughts?   

#### EVC

- hinting: The recent scientific discoveries hints the potential risks of wearing Airpods. 
- looking at : He is looking at a new Ipad for his wife's birthday. 
- is here to stay: Do you think the trend is going to be here to stay?   
- the real McCoy: The real McCoy of this brand is their innovation and high-quality.      
- north of: The north of 90% of the price increase is due to the trade war.  

#### VOC

- Craze: sensation, surge in popularity
- Hinting: suggesting
- Looking at: considering
- Plant-based: made mainly from plants
- Potentially: possibly
- Surging: suddenly increasing
- Palpable: can be felt
- Vetoed: ruled out, canceled, declined
-  Offering: menu item
- Brilliant: very intelligent
-  A wave of the future: something that will be more and more common as time goes by 
- ~ is here to stay: will be with us for a long time (NOT a craze or a fad)
- The real McCoy: the real thing Appeal: attraction
- The old days: a long time ago 
- Cardboard: paper 
- Enhance: make better
- They gotta watch out for: they have to be careful of 
- If you will: if you know what I mean 
- North of: slightly more than 
- Ubiquity: being everywhere 
- Byword: a   word (or phrase!) that describes something perfectly 
- Quick-service restaurants: fast-food restaurants
- Catching up: finally doing the job (performing the function) it was supposed to have been doing
- Closet eater: people who don’t want to eat “something” publicly

Alright, there  must  be  something  to  this  **meatless  craze**  because  the  **Golden Arches**—McDonald’s—now **hinting** that uh, well it’s, **it’s looking at** plant-based uh, Beyond Meat burgers. Uh, they were being first tested in Canada and  some other markets  around  the  country  and  now  they  might  take  this  nationwide,  potentially  worldwide.  Uh,  that  certainly  has  been  helping  Beyond Meat stocks—surging double digits yesterday and continuing today. 

To former McDonald’s USA CEO Ed Rensi. Uh, Ed,I guess this trend is real. It’s **palpable**. Um, I’m just wondering what does it mean for McDonald’s? Does it **steal from** existing uh, beef burgers or, or what?

I don’t think so. I think it’s going to be a great addition. And it takes people who have **vetoed visits** because they are vegans or vegetarian and this gives them an opportunity to have a, a burger. I’m **a little confused sometimes by** why they want it to taste like hamburger and not just **have a vegetarian offering**. But I think McDonald’s is doing something brilliant because they’re calling it a **PLT, which is plant, lettuce and tomato**, and not trying to call it something that it’s not. Uh, I think **it’s a wave of the future.** I don’t think it’s going to be like gluten-free is. **Gluten-free is falling off the cliff like a rock right now.** 

I see that.

I think this is here to stay.

Yeah. There’s something about it. And I’ve tasted these things—they do taste like the real **McCoy**. But you’re quite right that **the appeal seems to be in tasting like the real McCoy**. And it’s not like the old days where people who were, you know uh, into this *we're perfectly willing to accept something that*, for example, tasted like cardboard. This does not. So,I’m wondering if that’s changing...

Yeah, I think that the technology and the food science is going to enhance uh, the taste and the **dietary benefit** of this thing. Uh, one of the things **they gotta watch out for** is how much salt they’re putting in the product and how much fat’s going into it. But uh, overall,we’ve been selling the Impossible Burger at Fat Brands for the last three years,  and  it’s  very  well-received  by  the consumer and uh, uh, it’s good for business. It gets rid of the uh,veto option, if you will.